@Eastshade ENG, Developer: Eastshade Studios, 2019, PC.
@Text provided by Eastshade Studios’ Daniel Weinbaum. Thank you very much!


N E W
C O N T I N U E
O P T I O N S
E X I T
Saved
Buy
English
German
French
Italian
Spanish
Portuguese
Chinese
Japanese
Korean
Russian
Polish
Ukrainian
Arabic
Look Sensitivity
Invert Y Axis
Field of View
Refresh Rate
Resolution
Brightness
Graphics Quality
Vertical Sync
Crosshair
(helps with camera sickness)
Antialiasing
Master
Voices
Music
Ambient
I feel nothing.
SFX
Language
Controls
Video
Audio
Back
Remove Bait
Set Bait
Bye.

Save Settings
Do you want to apply these settings?
Don't Apply
Apply
Close
Pack
Okay
Fast Travel
This raft can't handle deep waters.
Raft won't work here.
Drink a Mountainwort Tea to walk to this location?
What is your name, traveler?
Can't save right now
A Botanist's Guide to Eastshade
Great Voyages
Brew
I brewed a
Resume
Save
Load
No Mountainwort Tea left.
Can't do that at night without a coat!
Options
Exit
Zoom
Accept
Accepted
Turn In
Mother
Which painting will best commemorate Mother?
I made a catch!
Tevfik
Azad
Soroush
Toma
Shadian Post Volunteer
Replay melody
Pull
Push
Any key to leave
Leave
Cancel
Rest
Interact
C R E D I T S
L O A D
points
Helem
Aliyyah
Yevheniy
Roots Leader
Sheriff
Ehsan
Elderly Hiker
Efe
Ennio
Sergio
Anika
Lenny
Bojan
Sanja
Captain Ilona
Najm
Fish Seller
Tea Seller
Ingov
Mudwillow
Doruk
Bal
Blacksmith
Bagnar
Ivan
Nadir
Messenger
Melek
Zahra
Toma
Lost Boy
Lost Girl
Tanik
Tailor
Guard
Have a good one.
Owned
I shouldn't go in there alone. It's not safe.
I can't leave now, Meira and Fedir need our help!
It's too deep.
Navian Carriage Driver
Pilot Nessa
Onur
Nika
Akva
Emerik
Yunus
Woodworker
Park Ranger Viktar
I'm not permitted to enter.
Journal
Updated
Completed
Naida the Waterfox
Art Dealer
Emine
Emil
*sigh*
When should I wake?
Line Snapped!
Too much tension! My line broke. The fish got away and took the bait with it!
Fish Got Away
Was that a nibble? If it was the fish got away.
No Water
I cast onto dry land!
Ranya
One Glowstone Guy
Bouncer
Smells like an ocean breeze.
A cloudy, effervescent brew.
A cloudy, effervescent brew.
Deposit
Deposit extra tea?
Sky Drop
Curiosity Lift
Moon's Shadow
Zenith
Bright Mirage
Never-land
Summit of Eastshade
Bursting Bubble
A sample from this spring has already been collected.
There is no spring water to collect here.
I filled the empty vial with water.
Mother's Painting Fulfilled
Old Man
Fynn
Kai
Kaelen
Lady Samira
Samiya
Praise Tiem.
Commander Liliana
Leela
Meira
Fedir
Historian Omiros
Innkeeper Kevork
Reiley
Amir
Radmila
Belinda
Vadim
Helena
Nikol
Horf
Jarrik
Pipa
It was a pleasure speaking with you.
Alejo
Commissions
You have accepted some commissions. You can view your active commissions at any time via a new button in your painting menu, or by pressing 'C'.
No Bait
I have no suitable bait!
No More Bait
I'm out of this type of bait!
Leilani
Evelina
Tam
Svenia
Select a canvas to paint on.
A Curious Note
A note slips out from the pages!
Roshanara
Mysterious Box
It's locked. There is a name carved into the wood. The name is <i>Medve</i>.
Aysun
Cili
We're flattered you want to keep going. But that's all!
You have a good day now.
Mount
It's too stormy to leave!
I caught Old Pops! He coughed up a ring! I've got the ring now, but should I keep Old Pops, or toss him back?
Keep
Release
I tossed Old Pops back to the water and he swam away.
test string
test test test
Vasu
Well, that's the song.
Really? You're just going to leave in the middle? Okay then.
Fooxitar Eggs
Inky Cap
Soap
Roots
White Bloomsac
Fabric
Boards
Feather
Twine
Stick
Commissions
Uncommon Commissions
Canvas
Sealant
Wax
Glowstones
Magic Flower
Air Balloon Poster
Letter of Reference
Empty Vial
Hot Spring Sample
Zip Trolley
Hide
Coat
Easel
Map
Amulet
Tent
Fire Pit
Raft
Lyndowian Brew
Meadowspice Mead
Mountainwort Tea
Mystery Blend
A curious blend with unknown effects.
Kai's Hydrathistle
Kai's version of Hydrathistle, which he claims is Black Thistle free.
Hydrathistle
Brewed from the precious and endangered Black Thistle. But what does it do? Only one way to find out!
Kai's Hydrathistle Analysis
Zahra's composition analysis on Kai's Hydrathistle, free of any Black Thistle traces.
Black Thistle Tea
Silver Dream Tea
Blue Dream Tea
Red Dream Tea
Water
Mudwillow's Tincture
Elixir of Life
Magic Flower
Rope
Fishing Pole
Heavy Reeds
Reed Boat
Drymouthed Sandfish
Ultramarine Minnow
Thunder Trout
Scragweed
Curious Note
Tea Kettle
Mountainwort
Locked Box
Aysun's Ring
Old Pops
Black Thistle
Shadian Post Air Balloon
Take to the Skies
Shadian Post Dream Teas
It's Goodnight to Dream Teas in Nava!
Shadian Post Elixir
Elixir of Life? More like 'Elixir of Lies'!!
Shadian Post Potionseller
Proven Innocent!
North Seas Shipping Message
A message delivered to me from the shipping company I used coming to Eastshade.
Pastries
Grape-filled pastries in a raspberry labeled bag. Clandestine!
Sinkwood Inn Key
Master key for the Sinkwood Inn.
This ad will surely convince people to take to the skies.
A strange item I found on the shore. It's pretty heavy.
Here's to a not-so-restful sleep.
Some scraps of wood, perfect for getting crafty.
A fresh, blank canvas to paint on.
Looks cozy enough to keep me warm all night.
 
All I need to live forever.
The scientist gave me these vials to fill with water from the hot springs.
A thick cloth— it's not very soft at all.
Useful for pillows, attire, and writing.
This will keep my campsite nice and warm.
They smell kind of weird.
Useful both as a source of warmth and a light, these rare stones are the currency of the land.
 
Fabled to have life-giving properties.
It's dripping ink everywhere...
A letter of reference for my admission into Nava.
Imbued with the quaint, dreamy glimmer of its seaside, port-town origin.
Said to cure the coughing disease.
 
Sure to keep you warm on a cold Shadian night, this brew is made with honey from the apiaries of Eastshade's remote west coast.
Sometimes called "Walker's Tea," the Mountainwort elevates the heart and spirit, and hiker's swear it makes the miles fly by.
Forbidden!
One drop a day is all you need, to find the items that you seek. Sip up, see well, but exercise care— This sight drains your spirit, 'til none can you spare.
Though a raft is slow and can only be helmed in shallow waters, it fares better than other watercraft upstream.
What will I dream up with this tea?
Bicycle
Fast and convenient! Also a joy to ride!
These are really tough— almost like rope.
A mixture sure to keep water out.
Ah— time for an exciting nap.
It smells like fresh rain.
Straight and sturdy, a usable stick isn't always easy to find.
There's nothing like a solid roof and feather bed, but a tent is a safe refuge nonetheless. It's also good to have if you need to wait around. This must be placed on solid, flat ground.
A refreshing sip to clear my head of anything weird I drank.
It's waxy.
A white bulbous fruit. It sounds hollow.
The perfect tool to travel via zip-line.
With just a few knots this is sure to hold anything in place.
A sturdy rope made of tightly woven twine.
To catch a fish, so juicy-sweet!
More useful than the common reed variety.
A watercraft suitable for sailing in coastal waters.
Quite large, and sandy-tan in color.
Tiny, with bright blue scales. A good snack for larger fish.
It's a mid-sized green fish.
Prickly and ragged.
A curious note left in a book at the University library.
Make tea wherever you go with herbs and a suitable heat source. Must be used at a fire or stove.
It has tiny blue flowers. They smell like sweet honey.
A mysterious box I found in the Howling Caverns. The word 'Medve' is inscribed on the bottom.
A small silver ring.
Looks soft, but it's prickly.
I managed to catch the largest fish in the lake!
Repellent
Supposed to keep vermin off crops. It doesn't smell great.
Tiem's Antidote
Samiya instructed me to splash this on a leaf from the Roots' tea vine.
Scragweed Tea
It tastes sweet, with notes of spice.
Bloomsac Tea
Bubbly!
Earthroot Tea
It has a rich, woody scent.
Netherleaf Tea
A powerful blend, with flavors procured from all over the island.
Sesha Tea
A traditional Navian blend. It's a dark, velvety brew.
Classic Shadian Teas
A quick brewing reference for some of Eastshade's most common teas.
Ancient Brews
A recipe book outlining arcane brews from Shadian days of yore.
Leaving Eastshade
A messenger gave me an apology letter from North Seas Shipping, along with a free ticket home. I can board from Lyndow at any time.
Sealant
If I can get Osha the password to enter the "Roots," he'll give me sealant.
I got sealant from Osha!
An Artist in Training
A young girl told me she knows where to find some boards. She can show me where they are.
I showed the girl some things about painting, but I didn't let her keep any of the materials she helped me find.
I showed the girl some things about painting, and let her keep some of the materials we found together.
The Air Balloon
Just north of Nava, I found someone who's built a curious flying contraption. Despite her wishes to ferry passengers, she's having trouble describing her invention and convincing people to come see it.
I've painted the pilots flying contraption. Maybe it would help with her marketing problem? I should show it to her.
I've painted something of a poster for the pilot. She asked me to post it somewhere busy.
The pilot promised to fly me up into the mountains— but not without a coat!
Off to the snowy peaks we go!
A Rare Bird
Anika, a woman living just south of the Great Shade, expressed her interest in a bird with a distinct hoot.
I think I found the owl Anika spoke of. I should see if she wants my painting of it!
I managed to find and paint Anika's rare owl. She was delighted!
Admission into Nava
The guard at the Nava Bridge said I needed three character references to enter the city.
I've acquired three letters of reference. That should be enough to get into Nava.
I've gained admission into the city!
A Wounded Waterfox
A park ranger in the Great Shade told me about a wounded waterfox. The animal needs help, but he can't manage to lure it. Didn't I read a book about waterfoxes?
A park ranger in the Great Shade told me about a wounded waterfox. The animal needs help, but he can't manage to lure it.
The park ranger was grateful for my help and he showed me how to make a tent.
A Pompous Patron
A rather pompous fellow at the Lyndow Inglenook Inn asked me to paint his portrait.
The client was pleased with my work. After all, the painting was of his favorite subject!
Fisherman
This is a toll bridge.
Toll Bridge Drop Box
Pay the toll of 60 glowstones?
Not enough glowstones. The toll is 60.
A Raft from Bloomsac
An odd fellow named Bojan taught me how to make a peculiar raft out of Bloomsac. The materials call for twine. He said Onur can help with that.
Onur is willing to show me how to make twine if I paint him a sandy beach.
I've painted a sandy beach for Onur. I should take it to him.
Onur showed me how to make twine in exchange for a painting of a sandy beach.
An Abandoned Tower
I found a dilapidated tower on the southern coast of Eastshade, near Old Lyndow.
Some Lyndow townsfolk spoke of ominous sightings near the abandoned tower at night.
I learned from Ingov that a mysterious someone has been living in the abandoned tower.
I learned from Ingov that the mystery person in the tower is none other than the missing architect of 'new' Lyndow.
The Architect of Lyndow
Azad, the one responsible for designing much of Lyndow's architecture, mysteriously went missing years ago.
I've learned that Azad has been hiding away in a tower previously thought to be abandoned. Ingov thinks I should speak with him.
I met Azad, the architect, and told him of a book written about his work. He seemed like a rather brittle fellow and asked me to leave his tower.
Azad has come out from hiding in his tower! Our conversation must have sparked a change in him! I should look for him in Lyndow.
Azad has tragically taken his life. Ingov is bereft.
Azad asked me to paint Lyndow. He'd like the composition to include the town hall, the gazebo, and the inn.
I've painted Azad's requested composition of Lyndow. I should take it to him.
I think the painting will be a memento of great sentiment for Azad.
Feathers for Quills
If I collect three feathers, Yunus of Old Lyndow will buy them from me.
I found three feathers. If I take them to Yunus he'll buy them from me.
Hopefully Yunus has enough quills to last him a while.
Art for a Fisherman
A fisherman near the Lyndow riverbank asked me to make a painting from the gazebo behind the Inglenook Inn.
I've made a painting from the gazebo behind the Inglenook Inn. Perhaps I should take it back to the fisherman.
The fisherman was pleased with my painting from the gazebo.
Help an Old Woman
The old woman traveling with us asked me to fetch her book from the sleeping quarters.
It was an easy task for an able body.
Cartographer's Ink
A cartographer staying at the Kestral's Aerie asked me to find her 4 inky cap mushrooms.
I've managed to find 4 inky caps. I should take them to the cartographer in the inn in the Great Shade.
The cartographer gave me a map of Eastshade in exchange for the inky caps.
Mudwillow's Riddle
Mudwillow, a lady living underground, gave me a strange riddle:<align="center"><i>Itself in a constant state of falling,To you, it seems that it's always stalling,A stony sight when the star hides awayA watchful eye at the peak of middayWhen day turns dark but a moment in time,When a star goes black though everything's fine.The largest of eyes that stares back at youA sight that aligns, that's the moment I choose.</i><align="left">
I think I've solved Mudwillow's riddle. I should take the painting to her.
I managed to solve Mudwillow's riddle.
Stuck in a Jug
Ehsan appears to have a jug stuck on his head. He asked me to get Nika the innkeeper.
Nika has asked me to fetch her soap from Emine's house. It's across the courtyard from Ehsan's house.
Nika successfully dejugged Ehsan.
An Unsuitable Parent
Emine believes Ehsan is an unsuitable parent for Lenny. She feels I should report him to the authorities in Nava.
Emine believes Ehsan is an unsuitable parent for Lenny. I told her she should report him to the authorities in Nava.
An Exclusive Club
A man on the beach was looking for his lost amulet in the water. It seems really valuable to him.
I found the man's amulet and received the password to enter the Roots: 'Dreamland'. The club is found by taking an underground tunnel starting near the bread stand in Nava. There's a walkway that leads right to the entrance.
I've managed to gain entrance to the Roots' club!
The Elixir of Life
Zahra from the University has asked me to bring her one of Melek's elixirs from the market.
Zahra is running some tests on the Elixir of Life. I can come back in an hour to hear the results.
It's been an hour. I should go see Zahra about her findings regarding the Elixir of Life.
Zahra gave me empty vials to collect samples from each of the five hot springs of Eastshade.
I've collected all five hot spring samples. I should take these back to Zahra.
I gave the hot spring samples to Melek in exchange for a hefty sum. I agreed to not tell Zahra.
I gave the hot spring samples to Zahra for testing. I can come back in an hour to hear the results.
It's been an hour. I should go see Zahra about her findings regarding the hot spring samples.
Melek's elixir turned out to be a sham. His shop will likely go out of business. I wonder what will take its place?
Toma's Apples
Toma, the Bloomsac farmer, has noticed apple cores all around his property. Who's leaving them behind?
I've discovered who was leaving behind the apples— two children lost in the forest!
Toma was shocked to hear about the children. We immediately brought them back to his house.
Toma and Cili are going to care for the lost children until their father is found.
Sheltered From The Wind
I met Tanik, trapped in a small cove. He needs my help to get out. I must create a rope and hang it from the old access ramp.
I met Tanik, trapped in a small cove. He is the father of the two lost children I found in the woods! Tanik needs my help to get out. I must create a rope and hang it from the old access ramp.
I have made a rope, now I just need to find a way to get on to the ramp.
I helped Tanik climb out of the cove. He went off to find his children.
I helped Tanik climb out of the cove. I knew where Tanik could find his children.
The Little Mice
Fynn needs 7 sticks to complete his fence.
I collected 7 sticks. Fynn can use these to build his fence.
Fynn is patching up his fence. I should check back tomorrow to make sure the vermin are gone.
I should check back with Fynn to see if the fence fixed his vermin problem.
Fynn needs repellent to keep the vermin out of his garden. He recommended K&K Apothecary, located on the riverbank on the south side of the Blushwoods.
I learned what I needed to know about the vermin problem. Guess that repellent won't help after all... I should check back with Fynn.
I took care of Fynn's "little mice." They weren't so little after all.
I couldn't get rid of Fynn's "little mice," but at least he has a nice fence!
Second Chances
I told Kai and Kaelen I would help with their glowstone troubles by borrowing 600 glowstones from Anika. Anika lives in the southwest of the Great Shade.
Anika refused to loan Kai and Kaelen any glowstones. People have boycotted the shop because Kai used an endangered plant in a potion. I should ask him about this.
Kai denies using the endangered plant. He gave me some Hydrathistle to have tested in Nava. The scientist's office is on the 3rd floor of the Common Tower.
Zahra tested the potion. Kai was telling the truth— there is no trace of endangered plants! I should bring the test report to Kai.
Kai is informing the newspaper about the clean test results. Maybe their business will be saved now!
It's been a couple days since Kai declared his innocence. Is their business still struggling?
Business is booming at the apothecary! Looks like Kai and Kaelen have cleared their names and are on the right track.
An Artist for Hire
Yevheniy's Art Store in the Nava market needs help with commission work. The clerk mentioned they'd need to see a portfolio of at least three paintings first.
The clerk at Yevheniy's Art Store in the Nava market said I should show my portfolio to Yevheniy if I'm interested in helping with commission work. She lives on the top floor of the Common Tower in Nava.
I'm now working for Yevheniy's Art Store!
Dormant In The Ice
I met an excavator named Meira on the shore. She seemed spooked and reluctant to talk with me.
Commander Liliana shared some strange experiences she and the other excavators have had. I'm going to explore the tunnel with them tomorrow. I should talk to Meira and Fedir while she prepares a tent for me.
I spoke with Fedir. He believes the team is cursed and that Meira's been dealing with a demon-like voice talking to her. I can find her taking a break at the northern shore.
I met Meira and we talked about the demon, but I still don't have any answers. I'll have to stay the night to find out more.
I've met both Meira and Fedir. I should check back in with Commander Liliana to find out if the tent is ready for me.
Something woke me in the middle of the night and I think I heard shouting. What is going on?
The ancient ice cave was full of rare hallucinogenic mushrooms. The spores trapped inside gave us all intense hallucinations! There were no demons or curses after all.
Chorus of the Night
Ranya heard drumming within the Blushwood Forest at night. Maybe I should investigate.
I came upon a curious sight in the Blushwoods— a group of drummers in the night! They ran into a tree-door when they saw me. A tree-door! I should go tell Ranya about this!
Upon returning to the site, Ranya and I found no trace of the drummers. Maybe someone in Nava knows more about these mysterious Blushwood night drummers. I should ask around.
I came upon a curious sight in the Blushwoods— a group of drummers in the night! They ran into a tree-door when they saw me. A tree-door! Maybe someone in Nava knows more about these mysterious Blushwood night drummers. I should ask around.
I was told that Leela the librarian might be able to help me find out more about these night drummers.
Someone mysterious gave Leela the librarian a book called "The First Folk." She believes it's relevant. It's on shelf C.
I found a note left in "The First Folk." If I want to solve this mystery, I should meet the note-writer at Mudwillow's mirror after midnight.
I met a First Folk! His name was Alejo. He asked me to meet him again at the same place and time and to bring him a painting of Nava. He requested that it be Nava from afar, and to show the entire city.
I've painted Nava. I should meet Alejo at Mudwillow's mirror after midnight, just like last time.
Alejo appreciated the painting I made for him, but I decided against visiting his home and meeting his people.
Locked Box
Lady Samira asked me to find her precious box in the Howling Caverns on the Tiffmoor Bluffs.
I found the box, but it's far more detailed than Lady Samira's description. The word 'Medve' is carved on the bottom. I wonder if there's more to this box...
I gave Lady Samira the box, but it contained seeds, not jewels, as she'd hoped.
I didn't give Lady Samira the box. She says it contains jewels, but her story isn't adding up. I should ask around to learn more about this box.
Park Ranger Viktar was overjoyed to be reunited with the seeds his family brought over when they first arrived in Eastshade. He asked me to give the box to Nadir, at the inn up the hill.
I found out the box belonged to Park Ranger Viktar's ancestors, but didn't have the box to return to Viktar. Lady Samira probably sold it for parts by now.
I gave the box to Nadir at the Kestral's Aerie. He's going to display it at the inn!
The box is safely in Nadir's inn. Travelers can enjoy learning about it when they pass through!
I decided to give Lady Samira the box, but she wasn't pleased to discover there were only seeds inside!
I found a locked box in the Howling Caverns on the Tiffmoor Bluffs. The word 'Medve' is inscribed on the bottom. I should see if anyone knows something about it.
After asking about the box, it seems that it could belong to either Lady Samira or Park Ranger Viktar.
A Marketplace Romance
Evelina at the Nava bread stand needs help with the lady she has a crush on. I promised to find out Leilani's favorite place and report back to Evelina. Leilani works in the spice shop in the lower market of Nava.
I found out Leilani's favorite place is the hot spring on the coast. I should let Evelina know.
I told Evelina about Leilani's favorite place. I hope things go well!
I lied to Evelina about Leilani's favorite place. Love is the worst.
Leilani and Evelina are officially dating!
A Prank of Pastries
I met a fellow who asked me to help prank his brother with a box of grape-filled pastries. He'll meet up with me at the Bakery in Nava.
The prank target will be sitting at a stool in the Nava Bakery. Time to get pranking!
I successfully pranked the man who loves raspberry pastries!
Tuber Troubles
A veggie vendor in Nava accidentally sold four toxic tubers to people who thought they were zucchinis. The vendor sold them in blue sacks. The effects of eating the tubers is extreme illness— I need to recover them quickly!
I recovered all the toxic tubers I could. I need to deliver them back to Tam.
One of the customers already ate the toxic tuber. He's not doing so good. I can't let anyone else eat these!
One of the customers meant to purchase a toxic tuber— very lucky!
I retrieved a tuber from an unsuspecting customer!
One customer seems to have eaten the tuber, but they're too embarrassed to confirm it. In any case, they don't have it anymore.
A New Job
The gallery in Nava is looking to hire a new artist. I need to build a portfolio of three artworks to show the art dealer.
The art dealer thinks Yevheniy will like my art. I should show her my portfolio. She lives on the top floor of the Common Tower in Nava.
Mysterious Cults
I read a wanted poster: A group called the Shez are looking for any information on another group called the Roots.
A Strange Fortune
I agreed to pick a sprig of Black Thistle near the Great Shade so Roshanara will tell my fortune.
Roshanara asked me to pick 5 invasive scragweeds from the near the Great Shade.
I gave Roshanara 5 weeds. She said I can bring back more scragweeds anytime in exchange for glowstones.
Roshanara is not a fortune-teller after all. There's nothing to be done about the dead Black Thistle, but there may be a way to make amends.
I picked a sprig of Black Thistle. I should bring it to Roshanara for my fortune.
As per Roshanara's request, I picked 5 scragweeds. I should bring them to her.
A Bitter Fish
Aysun has a personal vendetta against Old Pops, a fish in the Sinkwood Lake. She swears Old Pops tore the wedding ring right off of her finger. Aysun asked me to catch the fish and retrieve her ring. She mentioned he's a sandfish.
I caught Old Pops. I should bring him to Aysun so she can get the ring for herself.
I got the wedding ring from Old Pops and threw him back in the lake. I should bring the ring back to Aysun.
I caught that fish Old Pops and recovered Aysun's ring.
The Thief of Sinkwood Inn
Something's afoot at the Sinkwood Inn. I'm trapped here until the storm ends, so I may as well investigate.
The thief was Helena! She was having second thoughts about selling the land for tourism and planned to use the translation book to sneak into the ruins.
Tiem's Command
Samiya, leader of the Shez, has asked me to splash Tiem's Antidote on the Roots' tea vines. Should I do it? Or perhaps should I warn the Roots?
I did as Samiya bid. I should let her know the deed is done.
I warned the Roots that the Shez were plotting something.
Mother's Last Wishes
Mother always wanted me to visit Eastshade. She wished me to paint four of her favorite places on the island. A giant tree, anywhere on the Tiffmoor Bluffs, the highest peak, and the view from atop of the Common Tower in the big city.
I've painted all of Mother's favorite spots and more!
The Top of Nava
Due to some construction, I'll need a special pass from University staff in order to get to the top floor of the Common Tower.
Leela suggested I talk to Zahra about getting a pass. Her office is on the 3rd floor of the Common Tower.
Zahra will get me a pass if I help her uncover the truth about Melek's elixir.
Zahra gave me a pass to the top of the Common Tower.
Get your news here! Get your news here!
Stay informed! Get the latest issue of the Shadian Post! Pick it up here! Free copies; accepting donations!
Come get your latest issue of the Shadian Post here!
Knowledge is power! Stay informed! Come pick up the latest news here!
Detective! The student is back! The one who packed up real quick!
Aha, good news! The real detective has arrived!
Ugh.
That did not sound good...
I don't know what you're trying to do, but it's time to come down now!
Newcomer is still looking!
Look away, newcomer!
Will some boards from these broken crates work?
I'm a bird!
CAW! CAW!
Watch me soar like a bird!
I'm so good at flapping my wings!
I flew! I can't believe it! I flew!
Of course you did... I'm just glad you're back down. Don't do that again, okay?
Okay... Now that I know I can fly I won't do it again.
I know that I can do it if I put my mind to it!
Get down from there!
I can't fly if I don't even try!
You're not a bird Lenny! You need to come down right now!
...
You're going to get hurt!
Everybody turn around!
What? Why!
If you don't all turn around right now I'm going to jump!
Okay, okay! Everyone turn around.
Hello, friend!
La la la!
You must be one of the newcomers!
Can I help you with something?
Hmmm...
This is quite strange...
You are... standing so very close to me.
Hello, Bojan!
...
What do you make of the newcomer?
I think we are really good friends!
Is that right? That's wondrous! I'm glad you've found a new friend.
Ignore him. He says that every time it rains. Stop scaring the tourists, Grandpa!
Hey, are you an artist?
Now we just need the fabric! I don't know where to find that. Maybe we should ask someone.
So we have everything we need now, right? We can make a canvas from this stuff?
Could you paint something? I want to watch a real artist!
It's nice to see you again.
You've woken!
Are you feeling okay?
We stay busy working this dock. It's hard but fulfilling for me.
Yes?
Give me some space!
Azad is back!
I know! Have you spoken with him?
Only briefly. He was milling about here inspecting every architectural detail.
I saw him strolling around town this morning as if he'd never been gone. I can't believe it!
Where has he been all this time?
I heard he was hiding in the abandoned tower! He always was funny that one.
He'd been missing so long I thought the worst! I'm glad he's okay.
Did you see when it ran areef? I've never seen anything like that.
Terrible waste of a good ship.
And it went down so quickly— it's amazing anyone made it out of that!
You certainly won't see me boarding a ship anytime soon.
I saw a sign in town advertising someone who says they can fly! Says they've got some kind of flying machine!
I don't know... Maybe we should see for ourselves sometime.
Oh, it's really stuck, isn't it.
Yeah, it's pretty stuck.
I think what we need here is some soap.
Have a good one.
Kai... We have to stop taking Fynn's crops!
It's not like I enjoy it either...but what choice do we have? We haven't made a single sale in weeks! How is that even possible?
It's just...that poor, sweet man.
He blames the vermin as it is! We're not doing him any actual harm.
We can't steal his crops forever! At some point, he's going to realize...
That gullible old fool? He wouldn't believe we were stealing from him if we walked up and took the shoes right off'a his feet!
I can't believe you, Kai! We need to figure out a better way...
What are YOU doing here?
What's going on?
Meira ran inside the tunnel! She was screaming her head off and just went in!
What?! We can't go in there!
I tried to stop her! We don't have a choice now!
Oh my gods, how is this happening...
That was a great party on the Seltspring Coast, don't you think?
Shhh... don't let non-members hear you!
Dawn
Noon
Dusk
Midnight
Topics
You've just learned about a new topic. You can now inquire about this topic using the <color=#ffa74d>[Pick Topic]</color> option when it's presented. Not everyone has something to say about every topic.
Old Woman
Mishka
I need to get indoors.
Tifa
Innkeeper
Cartographer
Sleep
Pack
Received
Removed
Open Map
It's locked.
Inspiration
Making paintings drains inspiration. Gain inspiration by exploring new places and trying new things.
When using the carriage your bicycle travels with you.
Eastshade gets cold at night. After sunset, exploration without a means of warmth is out of the question.
Some inhabitants have more to say about a given topic than others. Some have nothing to say at all, in which case that topic won't be available for inquiry.
Access your canvas menu by pressing P or clicking on the canvas button at the bottom of your inventory.
Access your quest journal by pressing J.
If you really love a particular painting you made, you should keep it for yourself!
Toggle run by pressing Caps Lock, and toggle autorun by pressing R.
Use a bed or tent to sleep through night, and continue exploring in the warmth of the sun!
There are two varieties of Reeds in Eastshade, only one is useful for making boats.
Drink Mountainwort Tea to quickly walk to known locations.
Almost there...
See you later.
Safe travels.
Ticket Clerk
Have a nice trip.
Thank you, dear.
It will be strange coming home again. After all this time...
See you.
Now leave me be.
See you.
Safe travels.
My ox is strong, no?
Take care now.
Alright then.
Stay safe now.
Keep your muddy boots on the trail!
Bye now.
On your way then.
Bye-bye.
Damn fish aren't biting today.
See you around.
Mind the plants under foot!
See you.
Safe travels.
Come on in, then.
Farewell.
See you soon!
A Simple Chicken
My daughter thinks chickens make for tacky decor, but you know what? I like chickens! I don't care what the latest dos and don'ts are. Chickens are adorable. I'd like a chicken rendered in stunning detail.
A Cob House in the Country
Those little cob houses are dreamy! I want a painting of a cute one all alone in the country.
A Portrait of Despair
I need an artwork of a truly sad individual. Their very pose should elicit an air of melancholy deep enough to move even the most stone-hearted among us.
A Watermill
If I could see a watermill every day in my living room, I just don't see how I could be sad. I suppose I could walk to the south side of Nava to see one, but walking is just the worst.
A Windmill
I've only actually ever seen one in illustrations, and I just love them! One day I will make the trip to Tiffmoor to see one in person!
The Tiffmoor Ruins
So magnificent are those forgotten stones, as they stand so lonely in the windy Tiffmoor!
A Lonely Tower
Please paint me a forlorn tower. All by its lonesome. Preferably cast against a stark sky. None of the city towers, please! Those are hardly lonely or evocative.
A Small Stone Bridge
Is there anything more beautiful than a small stone bridge? I think not.
An Ocean Glacier
placeholder
A Mountainous Snowscape
I have fond memories of my explorations abroad and would like something to remind me of my journeys. I'm especially particular to snow as I was stationed up North during my years at the Academy.
A Cave of Ice
The University would like to request an artist's visualization of the ice cave currently being excavated in the area known as Ocean's Last Breath. We would like an idea of what this cave may look like before official reports arrive.
A Starry Cavern
I've been having strange dreams. In them, it feels as if I were under the sky, but then it turns out I'm actually in a cave, with stars all around. Would you paint something like this for me?
A Natural Arch
I'm interested in purchasing a landscape. I'd prefer if it included a natural arch in the composition.
Not bad!
It's a solid composition.
Got another one for me, eh?
Beautiful.
Such texture.
Hey, you made me look pretty good!
Ugh. Some people. So Tacky!
I've always wanted to live in one of those. They can get cold though. That stuff doesn't insulate very well.
Gather round tea drinkers, listen here. You ever hear the story of the Pauper & the Elk? Nary a traveler should pass through the borders o' Eastshade without hearing the tale!
There was this boy, you see, a young pauper who wandered Eastshade, to and fro. Every day he settled himself on the cobblestone streets of Nava, the port o' Lyndow— anywhere he thought passersby might take pity and toss a few glowstones his way.
Most folks, they caught a glimpse of his tattered rags and unkempt appearance and looked the other way. Lucky he was, survivin' all those nights he did as a youngster.
Many days he made do with crumbs and fish scraps scrounged from the city. When he was fortunate enough to find such shreds before sunset, he'd hike along the shore to bathe in the hot springs. 
Other times he traveled no further than the forest river, thankful for a clean drink and somewhere to watch the colors of sunset dance upon water. 
Now, to say this pauper felt disparaged by his lack of glowstones would be a misleading claim indeed. He may have been alone by society's standards, and folks certainly did turn up their snouts at him, but he could oft' be found humming to 'imself, his inner life filled with imagination and more than a speck of joy. 
Most folk would be saddened by the lack of bread and tea, or the absence of thick quilts to warm the bones on a cold night, and yet this boy had to live through it each day!
Hard to say whether it was the energy he put out into the world or the sound of his voice when the boy hummed. Whichever it was, one night an elk came to drink at the river's edge, unperturbed by the pauper's presence.
Now, when the boy spotted the elk, he could scarcely believe his eyes! Great Shade, you ever experience anything like it— an elk coming to you in the quietest hours of sunset?
Well, this elk, it was most unusual in more ways than one— above its sleek body, white horns rose up and swirled together in the most magnificent way.
When the elk spotted the boy, it stared at 'im a long moment, then bounded back into the forest, for it was a shy creature, as most of 'em are. I'm willing to bet few other folks even know they exist in these woods!
In fact, the pauper was the only folk to which the elk revealed itself. Imagine that— a penniless boy sighting this sacred animal, ahead'a all other folks, including those of the highest stature.
Though the elk found the pauper strange— walking on two legs and all— every eve the boy went to the river, the elk showed itself for longer and longer periods at'a time.
One night, the elk was standin' tall in the river, same place the boy usually stood, and the boy, with great uncertainty, slowly, very slowly, eased himself down in the water, toward the elk.
The elk, with those white swirled antlers, blonde fur, and piercing eyes, stared evenly at the pauper. The boy fully expected the elk to dart away as he drew near, but even when the boy extended his hand and stroked its cheek, the elk stood stiller than the Great Shade.
Wasn't long after that, pauper 'n elk became friends, of sorts. It was as if the elk understood the boy's situation in this world and took pity on 'im— t'wasn't long 'fore the elk showed 'im the secrets of the forest, bounding ahead and communicating in some unspoken language, showing the boy which berries to forage and which would make 'im sick.
Those rare times the boy fell ill, the elk even showed 'im which herbs to soothe the pain.
Many a secret lies here in the forests, you see. Only some creatures and folk know how to commune with nature. I'm not saying I'm one of 'em! I just tell the stories of these folks!
For a time, the boy abandoned his ventures into the city, preferrin' instead to wander 'round with the elk, experimenting with combining them herbs.
Eventually, there came a day when the boy— now near a man— returned to town, selling his potions and salves to the people, in clothes he made of the forest plants. Same folk who pretended not to see 'im years before now lined up to buy these salves from 'im! 
Imagine that! What would you do in the same situation— those folks givin' you glowstones fer things you made, when not long ago, they wouldn't even look ye in the eye?
Anyway, it wasn't long before this man was one of the most respected citizens in Eastshade. Folks on faraway islands placed orders, and his wares were shipped far and wide, setting sail from the very docks where he'd eaten fish scraps in years past. 
The pauper— er, medicine man— lived a long, prosperous life 'til just a few decades back. Shame you can't meet 'im now.
In fact, he could'a had any tombstone he wanted— granite, diamonds, gold leaf— but he requested one of the most simple around. Just a small pattern of stars, same as the ones Nava astronomers say mysteriously appeared in the night sky a few decades back...
Some have even said those stars only came into view just shortly after he opened his shop. Coincidence? Perhaps... but I think not.
If you look closely at the night sky, you can find that bunch o' stars, shining more brightly still than any others. Most folks speculate on the shape of them stars. Many claim they take the shape of some sort of stag, with antlers that differ far from any other other stag they've seen.
Course, for me and my kinsmen, we know the truth about them stars— and of the guardian elk that looks after the most overlooked 'among us, all the while keepin' an eye on the forest and balance of nature all around us.
Gather round! Come, hear a tale of trickery and wit!
There once was a witch who lived in a tiny hut at the edge of a swamp. She was skilled in the healing arts and could cure nearly any ailment.
Though she had many visitors, her truest companions were a cluster of spiders living under her table. One day a man ambled up the path and knocked upon her door.
“You must be the wise Witch Fleira, curer of all ills.” He looked around the hut with a sneer. “People cross the world for your cures and yet you live in this terrible shack. Surely folks pay dearly for the chance to continue breathing?”
But Fleira was not one for glowstones and she quite liked her home. She only sniffed and asked what his ailment was.
So he told her of the terrible pains and aches he suffered. Horrible scratching in his toenails, in each strand of hair, and in his tear ducts. Ah, it was a torture like none other. But he’d heard of the cure, only to be found in the swamp near her home. The only way to ease his pain— the Heart Root.
Well, in all her years of saving lives Fleira had never heard of such a root, but the bog wasn't so treacherous, and she'd gone in many times for lesser cures. So she agreed to find the Heart Root and the man agreed to wait in her hut.
Fleira trudged through the swamp, thick with slime and the stinking air heavy with rot. When she came to a clearing of black clay, she thrust her hands into the wet muck. But alas— nothing.
She dug for hours, her back aching and fingernails packed with mud. Finally, just as twilight fell to darkness, she found it— a spiraled green tuber, pulsing and glowing like a star. She lifted the root, heavy with swamp water and slid it into her bag.
Not a moment later something rustled in the shadows. A tiny silhouette showed itself beside her.
“You have stolen from me. That root is not yours to take.” It hissed.
The witch could just make out the sight of a mosself, staring up at her in fury. She told him of the ailing man and the power of the strange root, but the mosself only grew more angry and stamped his feet in the swampy muck.
“It’s a root of poison and destruction!” He screeched. “It cannot heal anything! I curse you! I curse you to remain in this bog forever!” And he snatched the root from her bag before darting back into the night.
Fleira’s path melted away, replaced by a ring of identical tree trunks, branches criss-crossing, weaving a cage around her. Roots churned under her feet and a bone-chilling mist draped itself over the bog.
Fleira sat down on a tree trunk and got to thinking, wondering about the man who’d sent her in hunt of the root. Had he known the truth? Had he wanted to use it for evil? No way to tell, so she set to trying to remember if anyone had ever broken a mosself curse.
Just then she felt a tickling on her arm, and her leg. She fought the urge to swipe and— if it wasn't her own spiders! They’d brought terrible news: The supposedly ailing man had taken over Fleira’s hut, demanding riches and luxuries from the ill, in exchange for false medicine.
He’d thrown out her furniture and dumped the spiders into the rain, threatening to stomp them if they snuck back in.
Now, it is often forgotten that spiders know an awful lot about a lot of things— with so many eyes and a knack for spinning tales, it’s a natural skill. They knew exactly how to break a mosself curse and set to spinning huge lacy webs, making a cocoon of the forest.
They hummed softly and when Fleira cut through the silk she was at the edge of the bog, her hut just up ahead.
Laborers surrounded her home— painting, and scraping, her precious herbs crushed beneath their feet. She peered through the window and there was the man— sitting upon a throne and beside him a large pile of jewels and glowstones. Fleira burst through the door, and he jumped halfway to the sun.
“You've taken too much! There are hundreds of jewels before me and not a one do you deserve! You haven’t enough hands to even carry these riches, you snake!”
Now the spiders thought this quite a funny idea and so they hummed again and the man sprouted hundreds of hands, and his body grew long and snake-like. He shrunk smaller and smaller before slinking under the door and out into the bog. And so you’ve now heard the tale of how centipedes came to be!
Come around, come around, and hear the tale of lovers lost at sea!
Every eve, there was a man who downed a mug of mead, braving some of Eastshade's coldest nights to take up post in the famed lighthouse. He was awaiting his love, you see, making sure the light was always shinin', so she'd see the way back home.
Years ago, his wife took to the seas, hoping to lay claim to a pile o' sunken treasure. T'was the time of year when storms grew more terrible with each passing week, but she swore it was the last time she'd take on such a risk. Although he hated to see her go, he stood at the dock and watched as she disappeared beyond the horizon.
Twas the nature of their love, you see— they supported one another despite all odds.
Well, the townsfolk thought him crazy! Ever since his wife was gone, he swore he heard his love cry out every nightly eclipse, wailing above the raucous of the sea. It was a near inhuman sound, "Aaaahuoooou, aaaahuooou!"
One night, the poor man couldn't take it anymore— believing his love to be so near but seeming so far. He swore he saw her trapped on a patch o' rocks away from shore. He cried out to her, "Alara! Alara!"
Aaaahuoooou, aaaahuooou! was the reply. In his excitement, he hardly noticed the approachin' storm.
He tumbled down the hill from the lighthouse and took the first small fishing boat he found. That night, he sealed his fate.
It wasn't long before the storm started ragin', the waves higher and fiercer than they'd ever been!
Alara! he cried. "Aaaahuoooou" the reply, near drowned out by the power of the sea.
The man paddled faster— he was so close, catching glimpses of her stranded on those sharp rocks. His heart ached, and in his desperation he fell deaf and blind to the monstrous wave building above.
Crashing down around him, the sea shattered his boat and sent the man deep below the surface. Waves swirled him 'round and 'round in a great salty tornado...he hardly knew which way was up!
Just as his breath was fading away, a great flash of light burst through the sea; a light so brilliant it shown through the ocean's deepest depths in a rainbow of color.
The light faded and he couldn't believe his eyes— Alara was swimming straight for 'im! She pierced through the thrashing sea, and hundreds of small silvery fish swam 'round her in a cyclone. They swam faster 'n faster, the fish cyclonin' tighter around until they fused to her body, changin' her legs into one great flipper.
In this form she swam with the grace of a dolphin, her flipper propelling her down to her sinking love. 
Just before he would'a drowned, this beauty of the sea grabbed him by the waist and shot straight outta the water with 'im in tow. As he surfaced, he gasped an enormous breath of air. The townspeople who'd heard his cries watched from the shore....said it was the last they ever saw of 'im.
Away they swam, never to be seen again.
That's what the optimists 'round here'll tell you, and it's the version I choose to believe.
There are others who say husband and wife were lost in the same patch o' sea— the man so overcome with grief he sailed out to find her and was never seen again. Though these storytellers have a hint'a optimism. They say that if you look at the nightly 'clipse, you can see 'em reunited in those brief moments up in the heavens.
Course, if you hear a man yelling "Alara" or see a pair o' merfolk out at sea, you let me know!
Greetings! I have a message for you from North Seas Shipping.
You got my message! And you came! It's so good to finally meet a sky folk. I mean... other than Mudwillow. But I guess she's not really a sky folk, since she does live underground. Maybe you've met her? Anyway...
Please forgive all the sneaky-sneaky. I should introduce myself. I am Alejo. My people call ourselves Machra, but I believe your people might better know us as "the first folk."
Why all the secrecy?
I'm not from around here.
*sigh* Sadly, my people wouldn't exactly approve of me meeting with a sky folk. Please don't take that in a bad way. As a people most of us are just very...
Shy?
Private?
Xenophobic?
[Remain silent]
Ooohh. But you are still sky folk, no?
Well, I don't live underground.
Who are the sky folk?
Aahh. I have so many questions for you! I hope it's not bad to ask, but is it true that your people are... removing the eyes of the first born?
Not true.
Totally true.
Ooohh, I never thought about that! So we are the strange ones!
Hmm, nooo. More like...
I guess you could say we do not like to mingle with outsiders.
What is this?
Fear of outsiders.
Never mind.
*sigh* Yes, sadly. Like this.
Ohh. That's a little... strange to us. Can I ask you why you are you doing this?
Just kidding.
Tradition.
Aha! I knew it. I wonder what other lies my people are making up about the sky folk.
The people who live on the surface?
I think that's most people everywhere.
And what is your trade?
I'm a painter.
Wow! That's very good! My sister is an artist too! She's an etcher. Carves designs into the walls and such things.
[Pick Topic]
I see. We are not doing this thing to anyone.
Well, I should probably leave here. Someone will notice I'm gone if I'm out for much longer.
Ooohh, tell me, do you think you could make me a painting of the big city? Mudwillow told me about it, but I want to see it! That would be incredible! I don't have much to give you though. We could meet here again. Same time tomorrow night.
I can do that.
I'm pretty busy.
-I have one now.
To be honest I like to be beneath the sky and stars. I think we all do. That's why every so often, some of us come up here to make music. Ah... To feel the rhythm of music under the stars... Most feel it's worth the risk of being heard.
Ahh. I understand. Well...
I think I'm going to make a habit of coming up here every night. I hope to see you soon!
If you don't mind. I will let you make your way first. I don't think my kin would appreciate me showing anyone the way to our home underground if you were to follow me. I hope you understand.
Hello again, my sky friend! I hope you're well. I myself was just having a nice think under the stars. I was dreaming about what it would be like to live up here.
Ooohh, really? Can I have it? I will cherish it forever.
Afraid not.
Maybe I can paint you a new one.
[Offer Painting]
That would be incredible! Paint it from afar, yes? I want to see the skyline!
It must be nice to always have the sky above. I do like home. The halls are warm. And everyone I love is there. But the sky speaks to me.
Have you had a chance to make a painting of the big city?
[Offer Painting]
Afraid not.
Ahh, that's okay. Well, it's good to see you again.
Aaahh. It is beautiful. Your people's buildings are incredible!
[Pick Topic]
[Offer Painting]
See you later.
You know, I would really like if you came to meet my people. You are a nice person. I think meeting you would help them see that outsiders are nothing to be scared of.
Ahh, that's okay. Well, it's good to see you again.
It is rock where animal has died? It is leaving like a print, in the rock?
A fossil.
Fossil. Yes. The fossil of a snail we use. What do your people use?
Glowstones.
Glowstones? We have lots of this! The rock of our home is rich with them. I can give you!
Will you come with me to meet my people? I can show you my home. And get you some glowstones.
Sounds lovely.
Maybe some other time.
Greetings, my friend.
Ehh, forgive me, but I'm going to have to ask to blindfold you. As much as I consider you a friend, my kin would not appreciate disclosing the way to our home. I will guide you. It's not far. Is that acceptable?
No problem.
Afraid not.
No problem at all. If you like I can bring some glowstone here. But I would really love you to meet my people.
Can't you take me with no blindfold?
That would be best.
Alright. I'll go get you some glowstones. I'll be back shortly. Wait here.
I am sorry. If it were up to me I would invite you openly. Just bringing you will get me in enough trouble as it is.
Alright.
Maybe another time.
Here. I hope this is sufficient.
Well, my friend. It was very good to meet you. Though I am saddened I wasn't able to introduce my people to you, I am still very glad to have gotten the chance to make your acquaintance.
Likewise.
Perhaps our paths will cross again one day.
[Pick Topic]
See you.
We have arrived. Please, wait here just one moment...
Watch your step.
This way.
Not much further now...
But... not me.
For as long as I can remember I have been fascinated by the sky folk. The stories. The architecture. The language. I have dedicated quite a lot of time to learning your tongue after all. I am grateful to Mudwillow for being such a willing teacher!
And the variety! Is it true that there are... Bearfolk?
Certainly!
That's a myth.
Do they... have temper? Like a bear?
Some.
No. They're nice.
They're all different.
Ahh. I can never tell what to believe from my people. I am feeling like we must have so much wrong about the sky folk.
More lies my people tell themselves, I see.
Ah, of course. Like my own people. They are people after all. Each different.
I went ahead and told most of the others that you're coming, so they won't get too startled. I've let them know you're completely friendly, but some of my people may still be alarmed. Please, pay no mind to any strange looks.
This way, if you please.
Well, this is our home. What do you think?
It's amazing!
Perfectly homey.
Can't imagine living here.
Ahh, well... I suppose to a sky folk it might feel a little cramped. But we are quite used to it.
Yes, it is! The only home we've ever known.
Ohh, that will make us all feel very proud when I tell the others. I am glad you like it.
We have been expanding for many generations now. We believe, as your own scholars do, that we Machra were indeed the first folk to settle here.
Our legend has it that the great Captain Ilanit and her crew landed here after being lost at sea for one thousand days without food or water.
Wow!
That's impossible.
*laughs* It's probably a bit exaggerated.
*laughs* I know. Our myths are a little... embellished.
But I do think Ilanit was a real person, and truly fearless.
She braved the ocean after all. I can think of nothing more terrifying than this.
I also braved the ocean a bit.
*gasps* No! Really? The sky speaks to me. But the ocean? No, no, no, no.
We actually sank on the way in.
It's not so bad.
Wow. Well, I'm glad you made it so that we could find each other and become friends!
Well. Here is some glowstones. I hope that's sufficient.
I truly am glad to have met you. You have taught me so much...
I was thinking... One day I may want to go from here. Go into the world. Just to see! Do you think the sky folk would welcome me?
Absolutely.
It's a tough world out there.
Ah. It was wishful thinking to guess that all sky folk are as amiable as you.
Oh, that would be incredible.
But I'm not ready yet. One day.
Maybe it's for the best if I continue to enjoy the sky world from afar.
I think your visit here will go a long way with my people. Now that they've seen you, a perfectly friendly one, it will plant the seed of acceptance.
I dream that one day the Machra can be friendly with the sky folk. I feel both our cultures would be richer.
Me too.
It's risky.
Maybe you're right.
Okay. I'll let you look around a bit. Then I'll take you back.
Are you ready?
One more moment.
Yes.
Farewell, my friend.
Hi there, stranger! Come on in! Care for some tea? Or maybe a mead?
A tea would be lovely.
I'd love a mead.
No, thanks.
Have you heard the drums at night?
I haven't heard any drums.
I don't think I've seen your face before. Are you from out west?
I'm not from Eastshade.
Ah, okay. I thought you might be from out west. I haven't met many westerners. I was born and raised in Nava.
I wish more westerners would come through this way. I really want to ask them about the drumming!
Drumming?
I was just a child the first time I heard drumming out in the Blushwoods. My best friend and I used to play out here a lot. We even found a drum once! Wish I could look at that thing, but it seems to have disappeared... 
I like the music. It's captivating. In fact it's almost... bewitching? But I've always been bewildered as to its source. I figure it must be some westerly folk thing.
Maybe the farmers from the Tiffmoor Bluffs throw parties in the Blushwood? Nobody in Nava seems to know anything about it.
[Pick Topic]
See you.
-I saw the drummers.
Hi again!
What!? Really?! A tree door!? Let's go see it!
Let's go!
Maybe later.
Aw. Okay. Come back soon though! I'm intrigued!
Hmm. You're sure it was here?
They were right here!
Well, they seem to have left no trace! And the door in the tree?
I swear there was a door.
I believe you. I've been hearing those drums for too long. Something mysterious is afoot.
I think you should ask around in Nava. Maybe there's someone who knows more about these Blushwood night drummers.
Whatever they're doing, it's clear they don't wish to be discovered.
All this investigating has made me thirsty! I think it's quite time for a Lyndowian Brew! Let me know if you find out more. Come on by any time!
[Pick Topic]
See you.
Need a lift?
[Go to Lyndow]
No.
It comes.
What comes?
Bye, crazy.
It comes!!!
It may be the fiercest Eastshade has seen in a hundred years. The signs are all around us.
You must find shelter.
What is it?
Death! It is death! I must go. Be safe, traveler.
Forgive an old woman, but I forget your name. What was it again?
[Name]
Would you mind getting my book from the sleeping quarters? It would spare my bones the trip. It's called "Great Voyages."
Thank you very much. I've read this old book many times. Seems I find something new each read. And no matter how many times I've read it, it never fails to get me excited for adventure!
Captain Ilona told me we'll be landing in Lyndow shortly. I think we're all antsy to arrive.
Are you the adventuring type?
Yes.
Not really.
Ah, after my own heart. I've had a lifetime of it, believe it or not. If you're sticking around in Eastshade, maybe I'll tell you all about it some time.
I see. Well, this voyage must have felt twice as long for you. Can I give you a word of advice? I'm old and wise after all.
By all means.
I don't take advice from strangers.
Adventuring is a lot more fun once you realize you need to be uncomfortable at times to have a good adventure.
Fair enough. I've heard enough bad advice to sympathize with that.
The lows make the highs that much more fulfilling. Just embrace the discomfort! It makes it less... uncomfortable.
As long as Eastshade doesn't rock like this ship I will love it.
[Pick Topic]
I've never been to Eastshade. I've heard wonderful things about it. Did you know that the people there used to cover their mouths with garments?
I've heard that's since gone out of style. Quite a strange fashion fad if you ask me!
Did I ever tell you about the trip your father and I took to Eastshade?
Tell me again.
Many times.
Out of all the trips we took, that one was my favorite. You know, if you're ever looking for painting inspiration...
I know, Mom.
Tell me you'll visit it one day! Promise you'll go!
I promise.
Maybe.
To think of you exploring Eastshade... It makes me so happy. I know you'll find inspiration there. What an adventure you'll have!
Be sure to paint the giant tree! Ah, I remember it like it was yesterday.
How will I know which tree?
You won't miss it, trust me.
Listen, there are some places you absolutely mustn't miss!
And the Tiffmoor Bluffs! Ah, the lovely sky country. I can picture you there now, an easel set and you making a beautiful painting. Those open skies and endless seas would move any artist.
Okay, I will.
And you must see the island from above! We had a guide lead us to the highest peak. But it's been a long time... the paths have been swept away and covered in boulders.
Ah... soon. You'll be there soon...
You should get some rest, Mom.
So stubborn, even now?
Okay, I promise.
And the city! There's a magnificent building in the center. From the very top floor you can see the whole town and more! You won't be able to resist taking out your brushes!
Aren't I good at flying?
You certainly are!
You're not actually flying.
Why does your dad wear a jug?
I know... But I bet I could actually fly if I put my mind to it! My dad says that I can do anything as long as I put my mind to it!
I bet you could too!
I don't think he meant flying.
Thanks! My dad says that I can do anything as long as I put my mind to it!
Oh...
CAW!
Why does your dad wear a jug?
Bye.
Well, sometimes he says I'm too much to handle. He wears it then. Our house only has one room, so wearing the jug is like being in his own room.
That's awful!
I see.
...
Doesn't sound... I see! She carries you across the oceans and you don't even learn her name! Annabelle— my ship— my wooden, sea loving daughter! Killed by the damned reefs when we came into this miserable town!
I'm very sorry about your ship.
At least all the real people made it.
What will you do now?
Kind of you to say so, but kindness does nothing to bring sweet Annabelle back to me.
At least all the real people made it.
What will you do now?
Off with you! I'd trade your life for hers!
[Pick Topic]
Goodbye.
Ah. So you've survived too. That means only one of us has been lost at sea!
Who was lost?
If only Annabelle could sail the seas once more! How cruel can this world be?!
Can't you get another ship?
[Pick Topic]
You're being a bit dramatic.
Blasphemy! Have you no sympathy for the broken-hearted?
Oh, my ship... such a good ship she was...
[Pick Topic]
I must be going.
Who! Only the most important one of us all! Annabelle!
Annabelle? She doesn't sound familiar...
I imagine I'll be spending the rest of my days mourning Annabelle. Sitting here, dreaming of a world where she wasn't destroyed and people actually remember her name!
I'm sorry I didn't remember.
I bet things will feel better tomorrow.
None of that matters now though... my poor ship...
[Pick Topic]
I must be going.
Why are you interrogating me? Can't you see I'm in mourning?
Can't you get another ship?
Perhaps the ship can be repaired.
You're being a bit dramatic.
Can't you leave a person to mourn in peace?
[Offer Painting]
[Pick Topic]
I'll go.
Is that... Annabelle? Why did you paint her all ruined like that? Is this supposed to memorialize her resting place?
Then you do understand this tragedy... Thank you. She would thank you too... if she were still alive!
I don't want anything to do with this painting. It's a thoughtful gesture, but you keep it.
*sigh* Take these. There's nothing worse than arriving in a new place glowstoneless.
Do you remember what happened?
I was traveling on a ship. It collided with the reef.
I don't have amnesia.
I'm glad your memory is intact. You washed up on this beach just a short while after the ship sank. One doesn't last long in water this cold.
Did everyone else make it?
Where are we?
Only your easel. It must mean a great deal to you. Even the frigid tide couldn't bring you to part from it.
Thanks for drying it out.
Only your easel. Don't forget to take it when you leave.  Even the frigid tide couldn't bring you to part from it. It must mean a great deal to you.
I won't forget.
I was about to head into town to share news of your survival. You should go there and let them know yourself. It's just up the path.
Thank you for helping me.
Eastshade, of course. Specifically, my home.
I usually don't take visitors, but in this case I can hardly blame you for floating in unannounced.
Did everyone else make it?
Did any of my possessions float in?
From what I've heard you were the only passenger misplaced during the wreck. The others are safe in town.
Where are we?
Did any of my possessions float in?
I work on the docks almost every day. If you ever have any questions about Lyndow come on over and I'll do my best to help!
[Pick Topic]
Thanks.
When I was a boy, merchants came to Lyndow with strange spices and soft fabrics. They haven't been back in a long time though.
What does Lyndow import now?
[Pick Topic]
Farewell.
In any case, there's always lots of work to do around here!
[Pick Topic]
I'll let you get back to work.
My father was a fisher of these oceans so I've been out on the sea plenty of times. I could never be a fisher though.
Why not?
[Pick Topic]
We mainly get shipments of teas, grains, and fabrics. And headwear of the latest fashion, of course.
We've had quite a few shipwrecks here. There's a reef surrounding the bay and that's what does it. This shouldn't slow traffic down too much though— I'm just glad you all made it!
[Pick Topic]
It was very lucky.
[Pick Topic]
See you.
Sea monsters.
Ah, a newcomer! In the future, if you're ever in need of carriage to Nava, I'm your driver.
Take me to Nava.
Okay. Thanks.
I said in the future. I won't take you right now.
Why?
You're a newcomer and you've never been to Nava! It's not so far and the walk is lovely. Everyone going to Nava for their first time should approach by foot. I won't be the one to cheat you out of an enriching experience!
And if it's the cost of the toll bridge you're worried about, know that you would have to pay it whether you're riding with me or not, if it's your first time crossing.
Come back to me after you've been to Nava, then I will be your driver.
So! The newcomer has walked the road to Nava. Didn't I tell you it would be worth it?
You were right. It was worth it!
It was nothing special.
Would you like a ride to Nava? You've already paid the toll, so it will be free for you!
[Go to Nava]
No.
Oh, I think you are wrong about that! Years from now when you're reminiscing about your adventures in Eastshade you will realize it was worth it.
Hello there! Can I help you, traveler?
Could I borrow some soap?
Soap? Well, certainly. May I ask why?
It's too weird for words.
Ehsan's head is stuck in a Jug.
Uh, hmm... you shouldn't use soap for that. It's not safe. Anyway, I'll ask no more! Here. And... no need to return it.
He did? Hmm... is he... a friend of yours?
I barely know him.
Actually, I think he's an ass.
We're acquainted now.
He's just such a peculiar man! And you know what? I think Lenny is going to have some real issues when he grows up.
Why's that?
Ah, well, I shouldn't gossip then.
No, best not.
What's the dirt?
Right. Well, here's some soap!
Well, you've seen him! The boy is unhinged!
And not just that, I've been hearing a lot of yelling coming from that house. I think it's quite a broken home.
You know, I imagine you'll be traveling all around this island, being a tourist and all. Perhaps when you get to Nava you should let the sheriff know about Ehsan. I think it's only right— you know, for Lenny.
Why don't you?
I'll tell the sheriff.
I'll consider it.
Well, it's a small town. If word ever got back to Ehsan that I was the one that reported him, things might be a little awkward, being such a close neighbor and all.
You should be the one to report it.
I'll tell the sheriff.
I'll consider it.
I think it'd be best for the child. I only have his best interest at heart. Ehsan is not a stable man. And wholly unsuitable to be a parent.
Here, this will help you with the toll.
*sigh* Of course, you're right. I suppose it's a bit selfish of me to worry about a little awkwardness when it's a matter so serious. I'll head over to Nava as soon as I get the chance.
Is he... a friend of yours?
I barely know him.
Actually, I think he's an ass.
We're acquainted now.
So I saw the sheriff pay Ehsan a visit.
Oh?
They went inside, so I can't be certain what happened. But it doesn't seem Lenny is going anywhere, so I think everything is okay after all.
I trust that the officers of Nava are reasonably well trained in these sorts of matters. So I certainly have a bit more peace of mind about Lenny.
I am glad you told me to report it myself, by the way. I think that was the right thing to do and our conversation was just the kick I needed. So thank you for that.
By the way, when I was in Nava, I was getting hassled by some merchant in the market. You know how it is. He gave me this coupon. He sells coats, I guess? I have no need of it, but what with your belongings being lost in the shipwreck and all, I thought you might.
And thank you, by the way, for talking to the sheriff.
What Ehsan did to you is downright uncivilized. But I'm not a bit surprised.
To say the least.
I may have provoked him.
That man is simply a bad apple! Thank the stars Aliyyah was able to leave with Lenny. I think he'll be much happier with his aunt.
Oh, I very much doubt that.
Hello there. Newcomer, are you? Trying to get across the bridge I'd guess? I hope you've got the glowstones for it— it's not free, you know.
The rule is you pay once and you can use it as much as you like.
What do you do here?
Where can I get glowstones?
Oh, me? I'm a fisher! I catch fish, cook fish, sell fish. You know.
But mostly what I do here is fish. Sometimes I like to visit town, but not very often.
From other people, I'd think. It seems to me that you're in need of some money.
Hmm, you know what maybe there's a way you can get glowstones out of me after all. I fancy that painting you've made from the gazebo behind the inn. Real pretty indeed. Maybe you're willing to sell it?
[Offer Painting]
I'm fond of it myself.
Well, looky here! You've gone and painted the gazebo view! Are you willing to sell it?
[Offer Painting]
I'm fond of it myself.
Proud of it, eh? Fair enough.
Well, how about that! Got myself something fancy!
What's all that you're carrying? Looks heavy! Are you some kind of painter?
Yes.
The gazebo is easy to find; it's just behind the inn. And I want the painting from the gazebo, not of the gazebo. It's the view not the building, if you get my meaning.
Oh. Well, alright then.
There's a gazebo in Lyndow. Real pretty spot. Maybe you've been there? Anyway I'd like a painting of that view.
I'll paint it for you.
No, thanks.
If you're still willing to paint that gazebo view for me, remember, the gazebo is just behind the inn.
Are you here to reconsider my offer?
What was your offer again?
No.
Hmm, you know what— maybe there's a way you can get glowstones out of me after all.
Thanks again for that painting!
Who's there!? Nika? Is that you?
No.
Yes.
You must be one of the tourists. Terrible about the sinking and all that. Glad you're okay, yada yada etcetera. But will you go get Nika, the innkeeper? I need help.
Why is there a jug on your head?
I'll get her.
I'm busy.
Brilliant. I'll wait here.
It's stuck, obviously. Now would you be be so kind as to go get Nika for me?
How does that even happen?
Sure.
Nah.
Well, I can tell by your voice you're not Nika! You're being smart with me.
Please? I have a problem! I need help!
Is your problem that you have a Jug on your head?
Why can't you get her yourself?
Okay, fine.
No.
My problem is that I live in Lyndow, and I have to deal with too many snarky tourists!
But... I do have another problem, I suppose. And that's that I have a jug stuck on my head. So I ask again: Would you be a kind stranger and go get Nika for me?
How does that even happen?
Sure.
Nah.
Because I cannot see. I have a jug on my head. You tourists seem to get brighter every year. Do they still have schools where you come from?
No. Don't answer that. It was rhetorical. Would you go get Nika for me?
How does that even happen?
Sure.
Nah.
It... uh... it happens. It's fairly normal, really. Doesn't it happen to you from time to time?
I'll get Nika for you.
Sorry, I'm busy.
But seriously...
Who's there? Oh, it's you. What?
I'll get Nika.
How does that even happen?
Nothing, bye.
But seriously, will you get the innkeeper?
Sure.
Nah.
I'll just wait here. I'll wear this jug while I wait.
Well, I guess it was convenient that you dropped in when you did. Thanks for getting Nika.
How did you get your head stuck?
Emine said she heard yelling from your house.
Be well.
Well, you are a nosy tourist aren't you? Beeswax!
I'll let you be.
Emine said she heard yelling from your house.
Emine? That nosy, stuck-up, goody two-talon— Grrr. If you had to deal with what I have to deal with—
She just doesn't like me because I'm not posh like her. This whole town is stuck-up. Them and all their judging eyes.
You know what? Get out of my house. You're just like everyone else in this town. Coming in here and telling me I'm a bad father. Get out.
I didn't say you were a bad father.
Maybe you're too unstable to be a parent.
Whatever.
I know that's what you meant. Just get out.
Get out!
Okay.
Maybe you're too unstable to be a parent.
Whatever.
What do you expect me to do with that? Give the soap to Nika!
I have nothing to say to you. Just get out.
Hey, you have an easel! Are you an artist?
So am I! Do you want to see what I made?
Okay.
I'm busy at the moment.
Look!
Hm. What is it supposed to be?
Wow, you worked really hard on this!
It took all day! But I want to make my next one even better. What should I do?
You'll want to start with a nice canvas.
This isn't the best time for me.
But I don't know how to make a canvas.
Let's make it together.
Alright! You're a nice artist after all!
We need to collect boards and fabric.
Are you ready to teach me something about painting?
Sure. You'll want to start with a nice canvas.
[Pick Topic]
I can't right now.
I know where some boards are! Follow me!
It's the ocean... I don't know how to do it right...
That painting is amazing! I want to try! Can I have a canvas? We found enough stuff, right?
[Give Canvas]
[Give Materials]
We didn't find enough.
These are far too valuable.
You never would have found that stuff without my help!
[Give Canvas]
[Give Materials]
We didn't find enough.
You can find your own.
Hmm... I've heard artists can be really moody sometimes...
Yes! I'm going to use this for Ms. Nika's next painting. She loves art so much.
Thanks again for the canvas!
Are you still feeling moody?
Wow, thanks! I'm going to be a moody artist like you when I grow up!
Let's keep going!
Hey! Ms. Nika loves art like us! She always likes my paintings. I bet she'd like yours too! She really likes the eclipse. You should draw her that!
It's... me!
Aw...
Yes, I am.
[Pick Topic]
Sorry, I'm in a hurry.
[Give Canvas]
[Pick Topic]
Afraid so. Goodbye.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
You must be a traveler from the wrecked ship.
A cave dweller rescued me.
That crazy captain nearly drowned us all.
Oh, good! Ingov needs some visitors every now and then. I wish he would spend more time in town, but he'd rather be alone.
Do you live in Lyndow?
She's utterly miserable... I tried to convince her to come inside, but she wouldn't leave the dock.
Do you live in Lyndow?
Yes, I run the inn. I always keep a full stock of soup and tea to refresh weary travelers!
Look! The eclipse is starting.
Stop by if you ever want to chat!
When I was young I traveled all over this island. I'd love to adventure again one day.
Ah, the traveling artist!
[Pick Topic]
[Browse Goods]
See you later.
-Ehsan needs you.
You look well!
My garden is filled with all sorts of wriggly critters!
The salty sea air never gets old!
Goodness! That painting of the eclipse is lovely! Is it for me?
[Offer Painting]
Afraid not.
Ah, okay. I thought maybe Sanja had put you up to it.
I bet Sanja put you up to this! This is lovely. You're too kind. I'm going to hang this in the room upstairs!
Certainly!
Oh, of course he does. And what is it this time?
He has a jug stuck on his head.
Again? That's like the eighth time! Alright then, we'd better go help.
Not a bad show, right?
I've missed seeing it from solid ground.
The eclipse looks similar everywhere.
It's been a while since I've really watched it.
Ha! You couldn't get me out on the oceans for anything. And especially not in a rickety wooden ship!
I should be heading back now. I was able to prepare your lodging at the inn. Your room is upstairs— I'll leave the door unlocked, so you can drop in at your leisure!
Thank you.
Look! The eclipse is starting...
It's true. Somehow watching it from this gazebo just doesn't get old for me. Anyway...
I should be heading back now. Your room is upstairs— I'll leave the door unlocked, so you can drop in at your leisure!
Thank you.
Great viewpoint isn't it?
Lovely.
It's very different from home.
If you haven't got lodging for the night, feel free to stay at the inn. I'll leave the upstairs room unlocked for you. Drop in at your leisure!
Don't worry about payment— shipwreck survivors stay free of charge!
Thank you.
I try to come up here every day. I guess it just doesn't get old for me. Anyway...
Oh, by the way— I know of someone who would very much enjoy meeting you. She's an avid painter and very excited about her work.
She's still working on some things and I bet she'd love to hear a tip from a professional. She usually hangs out near the inn.
Would you be a dear and fetch some soap from Emine's house? It's just down the stairs and across the courtyard.
You have the soap! Well, let's try this thing, then. Here, let me have that soap.
[Give Soap]
I doubt you'll need any pots. Not much a tourist can do with a big, heavy thing like a pot.
Watch your step there. Lots of moving boxes 'round here. You're looking a little waterlogged. Guessing you just came in off that ship? Think you even got some seaweed hangin' from your ear.
Gee, thanks.
I'm a wreck.
Yeah, we all have those days, right? I mean, my dad got in a shipwreck once. He wasn't as lucky as you though!
I'm sorry!
That must've been tough.
Aw, no. He's fine. Just lost his leg is all. Now he gets to order us around even more.
So, you'll probably be exploring all over right? Would you do me a huge favor?
Sure.
What is it?
My brother loves raspberry-filled pastries. Loves 'em. He can't get enough, but raspberries don't grow here. So he puts in an overseas order every two weeks. It's crazy really.
Okay, so what I did was fill his raspberry pastry bag with... grape pastries! Can you imagine what he's gonna do when he eats one! He'll go insane! Haha.
He's always suspicious of me doing something like this though, so it would be perfect if you could play along and act like a delivery person. So, what do you say? Will you deliver them to him?
This is a great plan!
I'm not into pranks.
Really? Huh. Don't think of it as a prank— think of it as a bonding experience between loving siblings?
Alright, fine.
No, thanks.
My brother lives over in Nava. So, I'll meet you there in a few days, alright? I'll probably be near the Bakery. You just come find me and I'll point my brother out to you.
Deal.
See you soon.
Well, take these anyway. Just in case you change your mind. Maybe you can find someone who actually likes them. Haha, just kidding— everyone hates 'em.
This is going to be such a great prank! Don't forget to meet me in Nava. I'm usually near the Bakery.
You seem like a nice person. You don't have to prank my brother if it's not your thing. Maybe I'll see you around in Nava?
Perfect! You gotta play the part though— really make him think they're raspberry pastries. Haha, this'll be great. Take these.
Now the thing he hates is grape-filled pastries. I mean, we all hate them, obviously, but he hates 'em even more. He'd destroy them all if he could, you know?
He once saw an old lady eating some and he grabbed the box and threw it in the ocean! It was the craziest thing!
Hello.
-I have three feathers.
[Pick Topic]
See you later.
There's nothing like a good book on a day such as this!
Actually... books are the perfect way to spend any day. Do you enjoy reading?
I do.
I don't do it much.
I'm glad to hear that! Perhaps I can share my favorite books with you sometime.
For now though, I must get back to reading... I think something fabulously dramatic is about to happen!
Well now, that is quite a shame.
Is there something else?
[Sell Feathers]
[Pick Topic]
Farewell.
Ah, my fellow bookworm!
I have three feathers.
[Pick Topic]
See you later.
My favorite books are the ones that inspire me to write myself! How about you?
I feel the same way.
Good books don't encourage me.
I'm not much of a writer.
Speaking of writing, if you find any feathers around here, I'd happily buy them. I'm constantly losing my quills! I figure three should do it.
Ah, yes, I have a friend who's the same way. In fact, the better the book, the more he finds himself discouraged!
I see.
Oh, wonderful! Hopefully this is enough to last me a while. Thank you very much!
I do hate scouring the forest floor for these. If you find any more, I'll pay you one glowstone a piece.
[Sell Feathers]
[Pick Topic]
See you later.
I have three feathers.
See you later.
What a horrible experience. I'm so glad to see you're safe. What brought you to Eastshade anyway?
I just wanted to see a new place.
I'm here to paint the landscape.
My mother loved it here.
How have you been?
Our captain is in a terrible state— I suppose that's to be expected. She won't even leave the dock. Perhaps it would console her to know that we all survived. You should speak with her.
Where are you staying?
I lost all of my things in the wreck.
I saw you talking with the captain. How is she doing?
I think she's going crazy.
She really loved that ship.
A traveling artist! That's wonderful. I came to visit my family.
Very adventurous of you. I came to visit my family.
I lost most of my possessions too— and nothing has washed up.
Thank goodness. We thought you were lost...
It gets cold around here at night. You shouldn't be out without a proper coat.
[Pick Topic]
Take care.
Oh! It's you! You were on the ship! What happened to you?
I washed up in a beach cave.
I survived!
Are you wondering about anything else?
[Pick Topic]
No. Take care.
[Pick Topic]
See you.
My family lives here in Lyndow, so I'll be staying with them. If you find that night is coming and you're in need of a place to stay, you should check the inn. You'll be comfortable there.
I don't think I've heard her talk about much else. I wonder if she'll ever recover.
That doesn't surprise me. She's lost her home and her career in one fell swoop!
I lost most of my possessions in the wreck— and nothing has washed up.
My cousin is so full of energy. One day he's flapping around like a bird, and the next he's jumping everywhere claiming to be a frog!
Hello again!
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
You look like you could use a nice cup of tea. This flavor is a bit strong for some people, but the effects can be lifted with a sip of water from your water-skin.
Thanks.
Heading back to the mainland? Do you already have a ticket or are you looking to buy?
[Show Letter]
Never mind.
Oh, you were on the Annabelle. Terribly sorry about that! Do you wish to board now? You don't have to take this ship. There are many coming through, all going to the mainland. Your ticket is valid for any North Seas Shipping vessel.
I'd like to board.
Never mind.
Once you board, there's no turning back. You'll be mainland bound! Are you done with all your business here in Eastshade?
I'm ready to board.
Never mind.
We've got you in the very best room. Go right ahead!
Oh, my! That painting! It's the most perfect thing I've ever seen. I simply must have it.
[Offer Painting]
I don't think so.
This is wonderful! My friends will be so jealous of me. I think I'll start a collection of paintings just like this!
Can you imagine? An entire wall filled with paintings... of me!
I'm glad you like it.
I just can't wait to go home and show everyone this magnificent portrait! The beauty of my features entirely makes up for your lack of proper art training.
I feel so adventurous staying here in Lyndow!
Where are you traveling from?
I live in Nava, but sometimes I just long for the primitive lifestyle Lyndow offers!
Lyndow seems well-established to me.
Do you visit Lyndow often?
Some may find the story of my journey utterly inspiring! Nothing could have prepared me for the muddy paths, the unbearable heat— I even had to eat outside! Overall, it was a dreadful experience, but I braved through it all.
That sounds like quite the trip.
I barely survived a terrible shipwreck.
Yes, it certainly was impressive on my part!
Well! The selfishness of the people in this town! What of my needs?
Hmm... may I see that outstanding painting again?
[Offer Painting]
I don't think so.
I do enjoy this exciting new lifestyle I've adopted. Did I ever get to tell you about my journey to Lyndow?
Hmm... I'm guessing you're a bit inexperienced in travel safety. Perhaps you should consult me for advice before your next journey...
Oh... right. I'm sure you have the saga thoroughly memorized!
Hmm... true. Perhaps 'epic saga' is a more fitting description!
Say! You do some sort of art things, don't you? Do you think you could capture my sheer magnificence on canvas? I'm dying to show my friends what a remarkable traveler I've become.
Perhaps.
I can't at the moment.
What stunning taste you have! Be sure to capture every bit of my elegance!
Hmm... Surely there isn't anything more fascinating to paint than myself. I'll just assume this is due to your poor taste.
Have you decided you'd like to paint a bold adventurer?
I'll consider it.
[Pick Topic]
Not interested.
I do enjoy this adventurous new lifestyle I've adopted. Did I ever get to tell you about my journey to Lyndow?
How humorous you are! I like that in a person.
I so dearly wish my friends could see how adventurous I've become!
This is my first excursion out of Nava. It just feels like the right time for a dramatic adventure!
Not yet.
[Pick Topic]
Yes, you did.
[Pick Topic]
I wouldn't call it a journey.
[Pick Topic]
See you later.
Who are you! How did you get in?
Ingov let me in.
The townspeople don't appreciate what I've done. They dwell in the marvel of my life's work!
You have a bad personality.
Someone wrote a book about you!
... Really?
I presume the old man told you why I'm here? Why I've chosen to live in this tower of solitude?
I think I understand.
Why do you live here?
You understand...
Look at my face! It makes children cry. Before I left I was the subject of chronic nightmares for one child. Her father showed her a new route to school so she could avoid passing me.
Then you know what it is to be an outsider your entire life? You've experienced what it is to be known for a birth anomaly?
I dedicated my life to becoming a great architect. For half a century I labored at this. I built the city they live in and how do the people of Lyndow know me? I am the disfigured architect!
Estranged from all others in this tower I am an outsider. But living in the town I am an outsider all the same. At least here in my tower I won't fuel the nightmares of children.
You can't possibly understand.
When I lived in Lyndow I was an outsider. For a time I considered moving far away to a new city where none would know me...
But I came to learn that I would be an outsider wherever I went.
What did it say of me?
It's mainly about your disfigurement.
It's about your accomplishments as an architect.
Of course it is. That's the most interesting thing about my life's work, isn't it!
But now, I'm afraid it's late, or early I should say, and I don't believe I invited you into my house.
So... someone's finally taken notice of my talent. Well, that is interesting. That changes everything... It's about time!
... I could say the same to you.
You think I deserve this? I have a bad attitude, I have a bad face; and so you would have me die in this tower?
It's not that simple.
Of course not.
Maybe you should be nice for a change.
Well, you may be the only one who wouldn't. Why are you here?
Someone wrote a book about you!
I'm afraid it's late— or early, rather. And I don't believe I invited you into my house.
No. Nothing is. Why are you here?
Someone wrote a book about you!
This conversation... it was almost... enjoyable. Perhaps I'll see you again...
Thanks for everything. I need some time to myself. This is indeed a special place, and I'd like to soak it in as much as possible before I leave it.
This building is truly a marvel. A masterwork of architecture it is!
You've come out of your tower!
A marvel, indeed.
It's not that great.
Yes. It would have been a shame to have designed such a beautiful city and not enjoy it for myself a little longer.
Glad you've had a change of heart.
Why only a little longer?
I have some work for a painter like you. Mistake me not, painting is an objectively inferior art form, especially when compared to something as functional as architecture. But in this one instance I could use your skills.
What do you need?
I'm useless, but you need me?
No, thanks.
The builders wanted to destroy the design, you know. They claimed the materials would be too expensive, the details too extravagant. If they'd had their way we would be standing in a wooden box.
It's clear you have poor taste.
You've come out of your tower!
It's just not my style.
Maybe you have poor taste.
Where would we be without painters such as yourself? Ah, yes, we'd all be eating paint and living under canvas huts. Unlike mine, your creations are inherently useless.
Suit yourself. This may be the one time you're skills would be useful.
This may be the one time you're skills would be useful.
What do you need?
No, thanks.
Please go back to your tower.
I've decided I'm going to move away. It pains me to think that I'll leave behind my creations, but it pains me more to think of more interactions with these wretched townspeople.
No.
I'd like a painting of this very city. The composition should include this very town hall, the perched gazebo, and the inn.
I'll paint it.
I'll consider it.
No, thanks.
If you hesitate too long I'll just find someone else. You painters are a glowstone a dozen.
I've decided I'm going to move away. It pains me to think that I'll leave behind my creations, but it pains me more to think of more interactions with these wretched townspeople.
Which actually brings me to something I wanted to ask you.
By the way...
Have you reconsidered? Are you ready to hear my offer?
What am I considering again?
Still not interested.
I can't remember if I've already told you this, as conversations with you people tend to drag...
I see you've made a painting of Lyndow! However, you haven't painted, as I've requested, the town hall, the perched gazebo, and the inn.
I'll try again.
It wasn't for you.
Very well. Be sure to include all the buildings I've requested in the composition!
Ah.
The painting of my city...
[Offer Painting]
It's not for you.
It's splendid... Truly. Thank you.
And... I should also thank you... for before. I'm glad you visited me in my tower.
I'd like some time to myself. This is indeed a special place, and I'd like to enjoy it as much as possible before I go.
I'm still waiting for that painting. Remember, the composition should include this very town hall, the perched gazebo, and the inn.
Perhaps it got lost in the subtlety. What I meant was, please, leave.
Well, I suppose you've already connected the dots. I knew someone would guess it eventually.
...
The one who dwells in the tower is the architect of 'new' Lyndow. The one who designed the beautiful buildings. The one who has been missing for years now.
Maybe this is for the best. Perhaps it's time someone talked to him, and maybe it's best if it's an outsider. I think deep down... he doesn't want to be living in that tower.
He is rash. And he is proud. Would you talk to him? I'll leave the door unlocked for you.
He went away. I don't think he's gone as far as people think...
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Please, just go away.
I don't know what you said to Azad, but he's had a breakthrough!
It really is an astonishing development. After all these years of estrangement, he's started coming into town again! I'd like to have been there to see the townspeople's reactions when he strolled into town!
I can't tell you what good you've done. I know he probably didn't show much gratitude, but you've inspired something in him.
I didn't mean to.
I'm glad he's reconnected.
He's an ass.
That's fair. I don't blame you for thinking so. But he's my friend, I suppose. And I'm glad he's not locking himself in that tower anymore.
And what's more, I don't have to make those deliveries to him in the middle of the night!
Me too. He's my friend, I suppose. And I'm very glad he's not locking himself in that tower anymore.
Just as well. He's my friend, I suppose. And I'm very glad he's not locking himself in that tower anymore.
When you first made your watery arrival to my cave I told you I didn't like visitors. However, because of what you did for Azad you are always welcome.
[Pick Topic]
Farewell.
What are you doing out so late?
You first.
What's in the crate?
Oh dear... I must ask that you tell no one about this. The information you have is already too close to uncovering the truth.
I'm delivering supplies to... someone... who is hiding in the Old Tower.
Come. There is something I need to show you. It's urgent.
I heard a splash... I dragged him from the water.
I always knew he was troubled. But I never thought...
He must have jumped from his tower.
You were the last to speak to him. How did that conversation go?
I told him he had a bad attitude.
I only tried to console him.
...
I didn't mean for this to happen!
Honestly, none will miss him.
I don't blame you for this. You said what you thought he needed to hear.
I will miss him. In fact I am utterly bereft. And you're a bit too honest for my taste. Perhaps you should trade a bit of honesty for compassion.
Help me bury him. I won't have this define his legacy. As far as anyone knows, he disappeared years ago.
Please, will you help me bury him? I don't want this to define his legacy. As far as anyone knows, he disappeared years ago.
It serves as a home now.
I wouldn't believe any of the stories you may have heard about it. It's just a decommissioned old tower...
That old tower was once used to communicate urgent messages to Nava using signal fires. Some years ago, the need for such a tower faded, and it fell to ruin.
That old tower...  someone has taken up residence there. I suppose one could say this person is hiding out. They wish not to be bothered by anyone, and that's something I can relate to.
Who is it?
This person wishes to remain unknown, and I mean to respect their wishes. I helped lock it up and only I hold the key to enter. I deliver supplies at night.
Why are they hiding?
I do hope you decide to keep this a secret. It's exposure means nothing to you and everything to the one who dwells in the tower.
I think they feel that the world of people is no place for them. I'm not sure this is the right solution... but the choice is not mine to make.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
By trade I am a cartographer, but unfortunately my productivity is down at the moment. I've run out of ink! It'll be awhile before my shipment comes in.
You're new around here, right? I'll bet you could use a map of Eastshade.
That would be useful.
I make do.
Fair enough. At any rate— if you'd like one, let me know. I have an extra print here I can give you.
If you'd like one I have an extra print here I can give you. But in exchange I'm wondering if there's something you can do for me.
As I mentioned, I'm running low on ink. If you find me four inky cap mushrooms I'll give it to you.
[Give Inky Caps]
I'll keep an eye out for them.
I'm busy.
Fair enough. The offer stands if you do manage to find them.
That would be grand. Last time I went inky cap foraging I got trapped in a conversation with the park ranger. He's rather obsessed with trail-making, isn't he? He gabbed about it for nearly an hour.
Have you by any chance found those inky caps yet?
-I have 4 inky caps.
No, I haven't.
Great! I've just put the final touches on your map. I hope it serves you well.
Thanks again for the inky caps! I can finally get some work now.
Are you sure you wouldn't like a map of Eastshade? I think it would serve an adventurer like you well!
That would be useful.
I make do.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Such a nice place to relax, this! I come here often. It's a nice quiet place to write music.
Hey, do you want to hear my latest tune?
Sure!
I'm busy at the moment.
I understand. But hey— don't forget to slow down every now and again! Enjoy the moment!
It's not so easy to play a string instrument with talons, you know! But what I lack in finger ability I hope I can make up for with my fine bird pipes.
Would you care to hear my song? Last time you left in the middle. But I'm willing to forgive that. Shall I start from the top?
Yes, please!
Not right now.
Thanks for listening! What did you think?
Fantastic!
Not bad.
Could use some work.
Aw. And here I was quite pleased with it. *sigh*
Care to hear my song again? I could use the practice!
Sure.
Not at the moment
Well, that's not the worst feedback I've ever gotten, that's for sure!
Oh, I'm so glad you liked it! Today is certainly shaping up to be a good one!
[Pick Topic]
-I'll take a room.
I can't afford that.
[Give Viktar's Box]
No, thanks.
Alright then. It's just up the stairs. Second door on the right.
Welcome to The Kestrel's Aerie! Providing a warm bed for travelers and tourists for just two glowstones night! Are you in need of a room tonight?
My great-great-grandparents built this lodge. It's held up pretty well, I'd say. With any luck it'll stay up for many more generations!
[Pick Topic]
[Give Viktar's Box]
What an ornate box! Oh— this is the famous seed box of the Medve family! I guess it's fitting to display it here, this being the place the Medve's settled!
Does everyone in town know about this box?
Yes, siree!
Not at all, but us innkeepers— folks tell us things. Just the other night, I heard the wildest story about a strange musical group out in the woods... You ever think of all the interesting stories we hear night after night?
Never gave it much thought.
Sounds like an interesting profession!
I'm going to set up a nice plaque for this. A traveling box— how fitting for an inn!
Oh! And I've also gotta go rescue a stupid waterfox. As if I didn't already have enough work to do...
What's a waterfox?
Ever thought of changing careers?
-I want to ask you about a box.
Yeah... He'll probably die. And his kits won't last long without him either. I guess it's sad, but the trails need maintenance.
Can I go see them?
Should you really give up on your job like this?
That's too bad.
Listen, this isn't my area of expertise! My job covers a lot more than just these waterfoxes... not that it's any of your business!
Can I go see them?
Right, sure. Just disclose the location of a wild, dying animal to an untrained visitor. I'm not about to do that!
I'm not really supposed to let visitors get so close to the wildlife, but I guess it doesn't matter at this point. The waterfoxes are living in a cave not more than a hundred paces from me.
I've already wasted so much time trying to catch him. I really can't spend another day on this... I think it's officially a lost cause.
What will happen to the waterfox?
Poor waterfox.
Can't change nature.
I did my best and that's all I can do. I won't abandon the park trails all because of this one animal.
That makes sense.
Can I go see them?
Yeah... I've already wasted so much effort on this. Time to get back to the trails.
My responsibility here is maintaining the trails— that's why I was hired. These waterfoxes are a huge thorn in my paw and they distract me from my real tasks.
My partner was the one who took care of the waterfoxes. Now he's gone and I have no idea how to handle these animals— I've been trying to trap one all day. Tried every type of bait under the moon!
Where did your partner go?
Why do you need to trap one?
He wanted to see the world! I don't blame him for that... but he could have at least left some instructions for taking care of these horrid animals!
Why do you need to trap one?
Why didn't you go with him?
What will you do about the animal?
One of them mangled his foot and I was trying to administer some salve before it gets infected...
What will you do?
Where did your partner go?
They're aquatic rodents, essentially. Like to live in watery caves. People think they're adorable, but in my opinion they're just wretched.
[Pick Topic]
-I want to ask you about a box.
Bye.
I'm pretty busy if you couldn't tell. I've got all these trails to maintain, tourists to wrangle, animals to nurture, plants to relocate. I'll be lucky if I ever get to take another break in my whole life.
Sounds like a tough job.
You're doing great!
Yeah, it is! At least someone understands what goes into making a national park. Ah, I'm just really stressed today.
Well, thanks. I guess that's nice to hear. Although, I don't see how you could know that.
I don't have a doubt in my mind this entire park would dry up and be full of invasive species within a week if I left. The thing that'd go first though is the trails. Everyone just hates using the trails...
I like the world here just fine. I like the trails, the trees. I don't want to see anything else. Besides what would happen to this park if I was gone?
What will you do about the waterfox?
Well, I guess I should thank you. I was ready to give up on this damned waterfox.
Listen, it's pretty clear that you're a nature-lover. I don't know how you managed to catch that animal, but I do appreciate it.
Let me show you how to make a snug tent. Should be useful for someone like you, roaming the country and all. It will give you a place to relax if you need to kill time, and shelter if you find night sneaking up on you.
Hmmm?
[Pick Topic]
-Can I ask you about a box?
Bye.
I have a lot of trails to maintain and don't need you guilt tripping me about that waterfox.
-Can I ask you about a box?
I don't mean to...
They live in watery caves and crevices. Usually secluded areas.
Aren't you full of questions! Go to the library if you want to be such a know-it-all!
These trails aren't going to take care of themselves!
-Can I ask you about a box?
Guess not!
Good day for making trails, wouldn't you say?
I've always pictured them as toad-eaters. Never really watched them eating though... If I knew what they like I would've trapped that injured one by now!
[Pick Topic]
What do waterfoxes like to eat?
Where do the waterfoxes live?
-Can I ask you about a box?
I'll let you get back to work.
You managed to trap him! I heard the shrieks all the way above ground! I need to administer the salve.
Yes, but we're full, as I said. Normally folks just need to write down what they want and Yevheniy will paint it for them. The best painter in Nava that Yevheniy!
She's been painting her whole life and doing commissions for at least forty years. These days she's spending more and more of her time on personal work. Good for her I say. But still...
We can't keep up with commissions like we used to. And demand is only growing!
[Browse Goods]
Maybe I could help?
Oh, are you a painter? We've been looking for someone to help with the workload, but so far no one's been up to Yevheniy's standards. Do you have a portfolio I can take a look at?
[Show Paintings]
I'm working on it.
I'd rather not share them.
Anything I can help with? Need some supplies?
[Browse Goods]
[Turn in Commissions]
[Show Paintings]
No, thanks.
Well, come on back when you have a portfolio to show. We'd love to take a look at your work! Yevheniy likes to see at least three pieces.
Wow! Your work is so detailed! You should show this to Yevheniy! She lives in the Common Tower. That's the big round building in the middle.
She'll absolutely want to see at least three paintings though.
So, sounds like you've managed to impress the great Yevheniy! I thought you might. Your work is excellent and just the style our clients are looking for!
We've got a whole bunch of commissions just waiting around. We keep them all in the ledger at the back. Take a look and see if you're up for any of them.
When you finish a commission just bring it back to me. I'll ensure you get paid and that the client gets the artwork. We're glad to have you join the gallery!
Welcome to Yevheniy's Art Gallery and Supply. And before you ask: No, I'm not Yevheniy. And if you came to request a commission, unfortunately we can't help with that either. Yevheniy is totally backed up at the moment. But we do have painting supplies in stock.
You take commissions?
I have to go.
You might just be the painter we need!
Have you given any thought to sharing your portfolio with us?
[Show Paintings]
I'm working on it.
I'd rather not share my art.
Welcome back! We've got plenty more patrons interested in your work.
[Browse Goods]
[Turn in Commissions]
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
We're always here if you change your mind.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Good day.
[Browse Goods]
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Where to?
[Fast Travel]
Never mind.
Oh, Leilani... *sigh*
Who's Leilani?
Me?
Snap out of it!
She's, well, she works in the spice shop down in the lower market. She's not the best cook though, haha. But she's wonderful. I mean— you know, she's a great person. So kind, funny, thoughtful. We've been spending a lot of time together lately.
Er no— is your name Leilani? I'm thinking of a different one.
Sorry, I didn't see you! How long have I been daydreaming... ah... I was just thinking about Leilani...
It's not! It's true love, I think! Or at least it has a real chance to be.
She loves bread, so yesterday I baked her a loaf in the shape of a rose. We ate it together on a bench in the gardens. It was so perfect.
I'm just so nervous to ask the question... Can you— would you do me a favor? Can you find out Leilani's favorite place? I know it's kind of silly to dance around like this... I just want it to be special!
I can do that!
No. Love is disgusting.
I don't have time for these things.
You're the best! She works in the spice shop down in the lower market area. Let me know what you find out. Please hurry— I'm so excited!
Oh my god... what if I already missed the perfect moment!
Things are really so great between us... I think I want to ask her if she'll be my girlfriend!
Did you figure anything out? Oh god, did she tell you what she thinks of me?
She thinks very highly of you.
You've got a chance!
Don't worry about it...
I'm dying! Tell me what she said! Where is her favorite place?
-Hot spring on the Seltspring Coast.
-Lyndow.
Really? *laugh*
Really? Wow, I'd heard about it, but I didn't think it was real. That sounds like the perfect magical place!
Really? Huh, I guess it's a cute little town over there. Must be if Leilani loves it!
Okay, I'm going to start making plans. Thank you so much! I'm so nervous, but this is going to be amazing! Wish me luck!
Oh hey, guess what!
Hey! So I have some news for you— Leilani and I went out for a picnic date at the hot springs!
She felt the same way! We're officially a couple now! Thank you so much for helping me out— it means the world to me.
So I was getting ready to ask Leilani to come to Lyndow with me, but she suggested we go to this hot spring on the coast! Doesn't that sound so magical and romantic?
We went at sunset and it was gorgeous— right when the stars came out I told her how I felt and...
Although, I found out she actually doesn't like Lyndow that much... So weird!
You're such a great friend! A champion of true love!
It's not really...
Okay, I'll do it.
It is though.
But we might be soul mates! Don't you want to help me find true love?
Okay, I'll do it.
Nope.
Has your heart thawed? Will you talk to Leilani for me?
Okay, fine.
Absolutely not.
Have you found anything out? What did Leilani say?
I'll let you know.
I want to be somewhere special when I ask her though. Somewhere magical and perfect. Like sitting on a golden cloud at sunset while butterflies circle around us... But you're probably not interested in this kind of thing...
No. It sounds mushy.
Tell me more!
What can I brew you up?
[Browse Goods]
Bye.
Just because I'm an owlfolk doesn't mean I can't control myself around copious amounts of fresh fish.
...
Okay, sometimes I eat some of the stock. But it's my shop after all!
[Browse Goods]
[Sell Fish]
Bye.
What crunchy scales... scrumptious raw fish... I can't wait until dinner time.
You tourists are such a nuisance. Move along, out of the city— make room for the actual citizens!
Whatever you need— I can't be bothered with it!
Must you keep interrupting me?
Always good to see a new face! Let me know if I can help you with anything!
Hi there!
Need something?
You know, I've been working here for twenty years. And I still love the smell of old books!
[Pick Topic]
See you.
Hello, do you want to buy any spices? Like pepper? Or whatever this is?
I'm friends with Evelina.
Are you sure it's edible?
Oh yeah? She's pretty great, isn't she! We met at the bread stand where she works. I really like bread so I'm over there a lot.
I'm new to Eastshade.
There are a lot of great places around.
What do you like to do here?
I don't really know. I just sold a bunch of it to some guy though... so probably.
I'm friends with Evelina.
Yeah? That's pretty cool I guess. You like to travel?
Yeah, I guess so. I don't get to go anywhere exciting very often.
I like to write. I don't know anything about these spices— it's my mom's shop, but she's been sick lately. I'm just helping out and fending off thieves. There are some parts about the job that are so boring though.
Yeah! I mean, me and Evelina have been hanging out a lot. She's really great. Like the other day she made me a special loaf of bread in the shape of a flower. She's just so cool.
What would you do with a day off?
Where's your favorite place?
Well... I should probably get back to pretending to know about spices.
[Pick Topic]
See you.
Probably something with Evelina. Maybe go on a picnic? I haven't done that in a long time.
There's this cool hot spring on the Seltspring Coast. I used to go there when I was a kid. It's all the way at the end of the beach, and no one really knows about it. It's a perfect place for picnics.
It sounds nice.
I'll check it out.
Let me know if you need any weird-tasting ground up plants!
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
I have to travel to Lyndow every week to get supplies. It's fine over there, but I wish I didn't have to go all the time. It's kind of like a creepy ghost town out there.
You must have fun sometimes.
Yeah, maybe I'll take a trip out there soon.
Yeah, you'd probably like it.
Hey so, you know that hot spring I told you about? Evelina and I went out there for a picnic. It was nice... and she asked me to be her girlfriend. So now we're together!
Aw, that's great!
Careful. Love isn't real.
It's so weird, but I feel like you had something to do with it. Anyway... thanks for... whatever you did.
Welcome, friend! Would you like a guaranteed long and healthy life?
Yes.
No, thanks.
-Zahra wants to test your elixir.
Suit yourself! If you want to die young and lonely that's your choice!
Whatever.
Lonely?
Ah, you're back. Have you decided you'd like more time on this earth after all?
[Browse Goods]
No.
-Zahra wants to test your elixir.
Ah, you've returned! You will certainly live a long time if you keep drinking this magical tincture! Would you like to purchase some?
[Browse Goods]
No, thanks.
-Zahra wants to test your elixir.
My elixir will fortify you with the strength and vigor! Imagine a longer life for you and all your loved ones! Sourced from hot springs around the island, this water is guaranteed to give you an extra 20 years! At least!
How do I know this works?
[Browse Goods]
-Zahra wants to test your elixir.
No, thanks.
Some of my long-time customers are practically living history books! They've been drinking the elixir for years and not a day have they aged!
Is this backed by any studies?
[Browse Goods]
-Zahra wants to test your elixir.
No, thanks.
Ah yes, sadly there are people around here who don't appreciate the happiness and longevity given by the precious elixir. Really, we must pity these poor people. Their lives are so empty, and so very short!
Aren't you curious to test it?
[Browse Goods]
See you.
Look at all who love our elixirs! The spring waters give life. That's well known. It works for the people— they feel it working and they don't need some University schmucks inspecting it. These people have trust and that's amazing. Almost as amazing as the elixir!
[Browse Goods]
See you.
Of course! Just look at all these happy people, they love it and it works perfectly for them! Each of my customers is a testament to the strength of this powerful elixir. So what do you say?
[Browse Goods]
-Zahra wants to test your elixir.
No, thanks.
The water is sourced from the life-giving springs of Eastshade!
Oh, I just assume you'll die alone because of how cynical you are.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
So, Zahra has you running around the island like some sort of unpaid assistant?
What do you want?
It was no trouble.
I suppose.
And to think you won't see a single glowstone for all your trouble. What a pity for you.
But the biggest waste here is how utterly pointless your task was. It's just astounding how much energy you cynics waste— all to crush the happiness of believers. Or maybe it's to prove to yourselves that you haven't been missing out on something wonderful. Which you have.
I know how remote some of those hot springs are. It was no small task.
But I'm no psychologist. I'm just a merchant. Don't mind me, I just bring life and joy to a city full of happy customers.
It doesn't hurt to learn more.
You're giving people false hope.
Listen here. I will give you 200 glowstones if you give me those hot spring samples, and never say another word to Zahra.
[Give Hot Spring Samples]
Are you trying to bribe me?
Nope. Bye.
Incredible, you have some brains in there after all. Here I thought I was going to have to convince you!
I know my elixir extends life as surely as I know the moon will hide the sun tomorrow. But I also know Zahra's 'science' won't find anything special in the spring water that will explain it.
Then it's probably fake.
It's magic that can't be explained?
Or maybe those University snobs don't know everything! Maybe there's something more to that water, something they can't see with their microscopes. Something they don't understand.
Maybe...
You and Zahra are going to rob so many people of Eastshade's greatest gift.
Absolutely not. I'm trying to save myself the public relations nightmare Zahra is trying to cause with all her nonsense.
Is your elixir a sham?
Sounds like you know you're guilty.
So... are you going to take the glowstones or not?
[Give Hot Spring Samples]
Not.
You're making the right choice. My elixir makes so many people happy.
You are an absolute fool.
But just because they can't see it with their fancy tests— that doesn't mean it isn't magical. You have to trust me on that.
Well, look what you've done. You've run me out of business! By tomorrow I'll be out of here and some junky shop nobody wants will take my place.
Sorry.
Good.
Get lost.
Ah, yes. A newcomer. May I see your reference letters, please?
References?
I'm still working on them.
I'm afraid if you're seeking passage into Nava, you'll need three reference letters from citizens of Eastshade, signed and sealed.
How do I get references?
Why do I need references?
Understood.
Well, you need to find people who are willing to vouch for your character in writing. Since you're a newcomer, you'll have to make some friends in the country.
Will that be all then?
How do I get references?
Why do I need references?
[Pick Topic]
That's all.
It hasn't always been this way, but lately we've been getting more newcomers than usual. We don't want to be unwelcoming to new folk, but we are trying to have some measure of security.
Hmm, yes. It appears everything is in order. Go right ahead then. And...
Welcome to Nava!
Do you have your references in order?
[Give References]
Can I help you?
[Pick Topic]
Goodbye.
I am a guard.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Welcome to the inn below the Tarnished Teapot.
I'll take a room.
Is that what this place is called?
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
If you really want. First door on your left.
Correct.
It doesn't have a name?
I see.
That is the name. We once had another name, but everyone just called us "that inn below the Tarnished Teapot." I don't blame 'em. This place is a bit of a dump. The manager has really let it go.
Who's the manager?
I see.
Why's it dumpy?
You're a great salesman.
I see.
You sure? We have rats.
I'm sure.
Never mind.
It's cold and damp. Tiny windows. Smells a little stale. At least the front door's nice and big. That's a plus, I suppose.
Thanks. I try.
Me.
Why don't you fix it up?
Why are you so down on your own inn?
Eh, sounds hard.
Eh, I make do. The more occupancy, the more bedding I have to wash. The property value has gone up so much I'm sitting on a fortune anyway.
Why don't you sell it?
I see.
That would require some doing. Not really much of a doer.
You've already got the room! First door on your left.
Looks like you don't quite have the glowstones.
These springs— well, you know about their magic, right? They'll make you live forever, hehehe!
Well, well. Come to lengthen your life, eh? That's a smart choice!
You should really consider staying here! You don't want those bones of yours to grow brittle!
-Hot springs test results.
See you.
Tell me, how old would you guess I am?
Seventy?
Thirty?
I can't really tell.
Hehehe, yes, yes! And that's because I'm always here! All day I'm in here so I can live forever!
Don't you like to visit other places?
Does it get boring?
Sounds relaxing.
Oh, I know everything that's out there already. All I need now is to stay in here. Other smart people like yourself visit now and then.
I'd rather be a little bored and live forever, than have some trifling entertainment and die tomorrow!
I'll tell you a secret... I'm actually 157 years old!!
I haven't set a foot outside this spring since then and look at me now— 157 years old!
-Hot springs test results.
Are you sure that's true?
Wow, it's a miracle!
Yes, I've seen it all and who knows what else I'll see! Well, hear about— because I really can't leave the hot springs. One day I got sick— I felt the tenuous grip of life loosen and I knew that I'd have to stay in here forever.
Ooooh, sure. Everyone tries to tell you what's what, but how can you argue when you have a 157 year old man sitting right in front of you!
Hehehe, of course it is! I know the waters make me look younger, but I'm older than anyone else on this whole island!
Hehehe, it is! And you can live forever too if you just stick around!
I'm so glad I found this place.
Oh, it is! The most relaxing thing in the entire world.
I only ever have one item for sale at a time. And I only sell anything for one price. Guess how much?
Five hundred glowstones?
How much?
Five hundred glowstones.
Well, looki-dee-doo-da— we've got a fresh face. Haven't seen you in the city before. And I like to think I know just about everyone around here.
Allow me to introduce myself. I'm Osha. Some people around here call me the One Glowstone Guy, because I'll buy anything for one glowstone. Any item under the sun and moon.
Just one. The way I see it, I already got just about everything I need in life. So nothing's worth more than one glowstone to me.
[Sell Item]
-About that sealant.
Just one glowstone?
Bye.
Do you have anything for sale?
There's only one thing that's worth more than a glowstone to me. One special thing. And that thing is—!!!
Did I mention some people call me One Glowstone Guy? Well, I've got two nicknames around here. The other thing people call me is Five Hundred Glowstone Guy.
Mountainwort. I'll give ya two for that.
Why mountainwort?
[Sell Item]
-About that sealant.
Bye.
Do you have anything for sale?
And what are you selling right now?
Why just one item?
See, I like to buy things and hold on to them. At any given time, there's always one thing that everyone needs and nobody has. And I just make sure I happen to have it.
Would you like to buy some sealant? It will be 500 glowstones.
[Buy Sealant]
That price is outrageous.
Is there any other way?
-I have the Roots password.
You think so? Well, I only have one thing to say to that...
Holy moly. Gotta say I didn't expect you would have the dough. Usually the people who buy my stuff are either rich folk or businesses in a pinch.
Sealant.
I need that!
Why sealant?
Right now that thing is sealant. The woodworkers need it for weatherproofing, the engineers need it for pipe making, and the fisher folk need it for boat building.
Apparently the shipment that was coming ran areef. Which is just the kind of news I like to hear.
I see.
Yes, I was there.
Oh, were you now? That was your ship, huh? Well, I'm very glad you made it! And I'm very glad the cargo didn't!
Hmmm...
There's only one thing I want that I can't seem to get. But I'm not sure you can help.
What is it?
I want to get into that fancy club. The Roots. They're such exclusive little buggers. I need the password to get in. No idea who to talk to about that.
It's pretty. Adds a nice burst of color to my pile here.
Get me that password and I'll give you the sealant.
No kidding! Well, smack me in the bloomsac and call me a tea kettle! Better than the glowstones, if you ask me. Much obliged!
Here you go!
Howdy.
Life is good here in Nava.
Got some junk to sell?
Did you pick up a paper?
Sure thing!
Looks like you already have the latest news!
I'd like one.
How much?
Yes, I did.
It's free! We're supported by donations from the community!
Would you like to donate a glowstone to the Shadian Post so we can keep the paper free, without ads, and unmotivated by pop news and tabloid journalism?
Sure.
Sorry.
Thank you for your contribution!
No problem!
To an outsider, this shady hillside might not seem like the best place to grow peas, but the farms of Nava's east side have been producing for hundreds of years.
You see Eastshadian peas don't handle direct sunlight like the continental variety.
Oh, look at me, talking your ear off about peas already! Say, if you're looking for things to see in this country, you should find your way out to the Tiffmoor Bluffs! There's some gorgeous farm country out there.
When I was younger I'd head out there all the time. These days I find myself a bit too busy with my peas. Navian demand is higher than ever you know!
Howdy!
By the way, if you need a few extra glowstones in your travels, I could use an extra pair of hands shucking some peas for market. I won't lie to you though— it's tedious work. Can really drain you.
[Pick Topic]
[Work]
See you.
Fantastic. I'll show you what needs to be done. It's not too complicated.
Need a few more glowstones, eh? Well, that's great news for me!
Say, I really appreciate the work you've been doing around here!
I can see you're feeling a little under the weather. I think you should take a break.
Can I help you?
I have a delivery.
One order of raspberry pastries!
A gift from afar!
Good! I've been expecting a delivery. Give it here.
[Give Pastries]
These truly are the finest raspberry.
Actually...
Hmm... it looks like someone's rifled through these. They're a little crushed too...
Very good! I'll take them now.
[Give Pastries]
Wait...
Well, what is it? I don't have all day.
[Give Pastries]
This isn't for you.
Your brother wanted to trick you.
I'm in the middle of something at the moment.
This flavor... GRAPE! My tongue! It'll never be the same!!
I can still taste the grape filling... Repulsive...
Oh, sure. Did my brother tell you to say that? Of course it's mine. I can see it's a package of raspberry pastries. Give them here.
Don't eat them!
Yeah, you're right...
My brother? He's always trying to trick me. Look, whatever you did— just give me the pastries and all will be forgiven.
Don't eat them!
I'm not so sure...
If you say so.
Ennio! This is my brother's idea of a prank? Poisoning a person's taste buds with the most repulsive flavor ever invented?
How do you even manage to keep this job when you're withholding packages? Give it to me.
A little crushing isn't going to ruin the tangy, sublime, gorgeous taste of raspberries!
What... what's happened to me? This is the most revolting, sickening....
What despicable baker would make an error so unforgivable!
Got you!
It wasn't my idea...
I'm just the delivery person.
Hilarious! I can't believe you actually got me! Ennio's always trying to do these ridiculous pranks. Usually I can see 'em from a mile away.
...
That's just... it's...
But messing around with grape pastries? That's some risky business. You should be proud— I'm not easily pranked!
You made it to Nava! You still have the pastries, right? Oh, this is going to be great!
Okay, my brother's sitting at that table right outside the Bakery. I'll go over first, then you follow behind. Remember, make him think you're a normal delivery person!
Got it.
Wait, I can't right now.
Hey there. It's nice to see you all dried off.
Hope you've found some use for those grape pastries. Maybe the fish would eat 'em— they're pretty gross though!
That was perfect!! I couldn't picture it going any better. He totally thought you were a delivery person!
Come find me when you're ready— I'll be here!
Oh... hello there, 'delivery person!' I'm not expecting any packages!
You should look into doing this for a living. I don't have much to give you, but seeing my brother eat a grape pastry was just priceless!
That was amazing! I thought you were going to botch it for a second there— but he fell for it anyway!
Haha, this one will go down in family history.
I'm never going to forget the look on his face when he ate that grape-filled pastry. Haha!
Do you know of Melek? He's the merchant selling the so-called 'Elixir of Life' down in the market.
-I bought one.
-I do.
No.
Did you now? Did you drink it?
-Yes.
Not yet.
And? Do you think it can really extend your life?
I do.
It's possible.
Probably not.
Hmm. I see.
Could I buy that from you? I can offer double what you paid for it. I just need one.
I'd like to run some tests on it. I've heard the claims and let's just say I'm... skeptical.
This Elixir of Life seems to be quite a trendy product in the city. And if this Melek fellow is cheating folks out of their hard-earned glowstones, I'd like to know the truth of it.
[Sell Potion]
Why do you want one?
Why don't you buy one from him?
See you.
I'll pick you up an elixir.
I'm busy right now.
Well, you see, I've earned a bit of a reputation here in Nava as the resident skeptic. I just like to know the science of things!
The obvious tactic of a charlatan, if you ask me.
Wonderful. Now I can run some tests. Why don't you come back in about an hour, and I'll fill you in on my findings!
The tests are running now and should be done soon. Come back in a bit and we'll go over the results.
Then, if you don't mind my asking, why did you buy one?
Just curious.
I just act at random.
I suppose it's possible.
...That's... an interesting way to live life! Keeps things fresh, I suppose.
I have a favor to ask of you. Do you think you could perhaps go to Melek's shop in the market and buy me one of said elixirs? I'll buy it from you at twice what it's worth.
That seems a reasonable guess.
Did you by any chance pick me up one of those elixirs from the market?
[Sell Potion]
Why do you want one?
Why don't you buy one from him?
No.
Fantastic! You can find me here just about any time. I'm always working. *sigh*
A fine day for science!
I do love working here in the University. Even though my senior, Professor Esma, can be a bit... eccentric at times.
*sigh* It's going to be another late night, that's for sure.
Well, I've run some tests. Unfortunately, my findings are... inconclusive. The solution seems to be mixed with so many things I can't get a clear reading of its composition.
I've been thinking... Melek claims the life-giving ingredient in his potions is water from the local hot springs. I know it's a big ask, but I'm wondering if you're interested in collecting water samples from each of the five hot springs of Eastshade.
What do you say?
I can do that.
I'm busy.
Why don't you do it?
Have you reconsidered? Do you think you can gather water samples from the hot springs of Eastshade? Help me settle whether that elixir is a sham or a miracle!
Ah well, if you're ever free in the future, come drop by. I'll set you up with the necessary equipment.
Fantastic! Take these empty vials. The collection should be fairly straightforward. Finding the five hot springs will be the hard part. They're in all corners of the island and some are rather tucked away!
-I have all five samples.
I'm still working on it.
-Melek paid me for the samples.
[Pick Topic]
A new face! Allow me to introduce myself. I'm Zahra, assistant research scientist here at the University!
He bribed you?
He had good reasons.
Yes. The money was too good.
Yes. So now we know it's a sham.
Sadly, I don't have time to leave the University much. I've got lectures to teach and my current research is in an entirely different area... *sigh*
I'll do it.
I'm busy too.
Well... that was pretty obvious already. We needed the hot springs samples to prove that to the public. The Shadian Post would have covered it if we had a good case. And now we have nothing.
Well, this has been a depressing distraction. I'll need to get back to work. Just take your glowstones and be on your way.
Where do you think all that money came from? His innocent, brain-washed customers!
And by 'reasons' I'm sure you mean 'reward.'
I'm afraid I'm quite busy right now.
You do? Fantastic! That can't have been easy. I understand that some of those hot springs are quite remote. Oh, I can't thank you enough!
I'm going to get right to analyzing it. It shouldn't take long. Come back in an hour if you want to see the results! This could really put that con artist out of business!
Where's my reward?
Sounds good.
Reward? The good will of the people of course! If this elixir turns out to be a sham, which it almost certainly will, we'll be saving Navians from wasting a lot glowstones! I'm open to being proven wrong, but I find it very unlikely.
Good point.
Seriously? I did that for nothing?
You've done some real good here in Nava! And I like to think I have too!
I'm not getting paid for this either! It just seems like the right thing to do given I have the training and equipment to look into it.
*sigh* But I'll see about getting you some kind of stipend from the University. That is, if Professor Esma let's me out of my cage long enough to talk to administration.
Ah, never mind. It's okay.
Thanks.
Oh, and I managed to get you a small stipend from the University!
Thanks!
Glad to help out science!
You'll never guess what I've found!
The hot spring water is special! It's full of minerals! There's one mineral in particular... I can't quite match its particle shape to any other known minerals! It may be a new discovery! More study is needed of course.
I can't thank you enough for retrieving these samples for me! This could be an important contribution to science!
So the elixir is real after all?
What? Oh, yeah. That. No. Definitely not. Melek's 'elixir' doesn't even contain trace levels of hot spring water. It's just city rain water. The stuff we all drink everyday.
Seriously?
Aha! We knew it!
Definitely. I did some sample comparisons. Seems like he mixed other things in. Sweeteners and flavorings by the looks of it. Anyway, definitely not the stuff from any of the springs. Totally different mineral profile.
What a sneak.
What do we do now?
How's the hot spring sample collecting going?
I'll be taking this report straight to the Shadian Post. I know a reporter there who will be very interested. Thanks so much for all your help! We've really done some good here!
Thanks again for your help with getting those hot spring samples. I think Melek's con campaign will soon come to an end.
I'm sure you've heard already. Melek's shop has closed down! Great news, isn't it? The shop that's sprung up in its place is great! A much more valuable contribution to our community, I'd say!
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
I tried to buy one from him. He told me that with my closed-minded attitude it would never work on me, and refused to sell me one.
Then we can really answer this question once and for all! No more tricks, no more over-priced traps.
Easy does it. Do you know your name?
[Name]
And do you remember what happened?
Ehsan assaulted me.
Ehsan and I got into a tussle.
Ehsan said you provoked him. Is that true?
I suppose.
Nonsense.
Does it matter?
Did he at any point ask you to leave?
He did.
No, he just punched me.
Are you saying I'm the guilty one?
So why did he punch you?
No idea. He's nuts.
I told him he might be unsuitable for parenthood.
Are you saying I'm the guilty one?
Well, telling the complete truth always matters.
And did you?
I was trying to.
I was about to.
No.
Listen, I think I know what's going on here. As an official, I'm obliged to tell you, in the future, in situations like these, never confront the parent. Ever. It's most likely they will deny and defend, and no good can come of that.
There was no tension of any kind in the conversation?
No tension at all.
I was telling him the truth.
Are you saying I'm the guilty one?
I'm not assigning guilt to anyone. I'm just trying to get the facts straight.
If you suspect something, report it. Don't take it into your own hands.
You stay clear of Ehsan now, and he'll stay clear of you. I'll be on my way now.
Will do.
Won't he be arrested?
We've got it handled. Like I said, you two just stay out of each other's way.
Okay.
He's dangerous and must be arrested.
Actually, he hasn't hurt a fly until now. You're the first person he ever got physical with. And seeing as you were in his house— as far I gather without invitation— I'm not going to be so quick to call him dangerous. Like I said, we have it handled. Now, I've got to get back to Nava. Be safe, newcomer.
You don't look like you're from around here. I'm the sheriff of this island. Glad to meet you. Anything I can help with?
Are you very busy?
I heard some rumors about Ehsan.
Ah, I see. Rest assured this will be handled. Thanks for bringing it to my attention.
Yes, extremely busy. It's not all about crimes and capers... though it is about that too.
Okay, just have to check. Standard protocol when someone is hit in the head like that.
Anything else?
[Pick Topic]
See you later.
I just love days like this!
[Pick Topic]
See you later!
Hello there! Such a great day, isn't it?
Absolutely!
Ehh... what is it?
Are you okay?
You don't look so good.
Ugh, this is horrible...
All I had today was a zucchini. It looked weird... but it tasted really good.
[Pick Topic]
Feel better.
I feel like I just ate a huge bite of death.
What did you eat?
Well, well, well. Your clothes are looking a little scrappy! Bet you just about freeze to death come nightfall! If you're ever looking to upgrade your attire I'm sure I have just the thing.
[Browse Goods]
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Glad to see that coat is treating you well.
Sorry, you can't go up there right now. We're doing some renovations.
When can I go up?
-I have a pass.
Okay, bye.
So, basically never.
-I have a pass.
Is there any way you'll let me through?
Okay, bye.
If you're here to visit, yeah, you won't be seeing it this trip. Sorry about that!
Oh, go right ahead then! Just be careful, okay? There's a lot of folks on scaffolding holding things like hammers, you know?
Well, you need a pass. Any official from the University should be able to give you one.
*inhales* Hard to say. Maybe in ten months? Give or take. Could be longer if we hit any delays.
I saw your pass. Go right ahead.
Oh dear... oh no. I've done something terrible. I'm not sure if we've met before... but I need help.
Calm down.
What happened?
Oh dear... this morning I sold some zucchinis... I thought they were zucchinis! But now... I still have the zucchinis here in my basket...
I sold toxic tubers!! Oh god. I have no idea who I sold them to!
What are the symptoms?
How did that happen?
Numb legs, upset stomach... and then... hours of vomiting!
Stop panicking!
It's going to be okay.
What are we going to do?!
I don't know! Oh, I never thought selling veggies would be this hard!
What are the symptoms?
You stop panicking! This is a disaster! I'm ruined!
How? How will this ever be okay? I'm ruined!
Oh god! What can we do? This is a nightmare!
And now people are going to start being sick... there's so little time! I need to recover those tubers— can you help me? I've got no one else to turn to!
Yes! What can I do?
No! This is your problem!
I can't associate myself with you.
Thank you! Thank you! Please just ask people if they've bought any zucchinis today! Tell them what happened and get the tubers back!
No, please! I'll make it up to you somehow. Think of all those poor poisoned people!
Fine, I'll help.
Good luck.
Once was bad enough, but twice?!
Wait you did this before?
How?!
I sold four zucchinis all together. And I put them in blue bags, so maybe that can help you find them! Oh god, I hope no one has eaten any!
Oh my god, I can't believe this happened. Have you gotten any of the tubers back? I don't mean to rush you but this is urgent!
I'm on it.
This is your fault— I'll go at my own pace.
Did you get them back?
I got everything I could.
It was too late for some people.
You really messed up.
Oh dear... I can't believe this! Oh, my days as a vendor are over, I just know it.
Please— you have to help me find the toxic tubers!
Okay! What should I do?
This is your own fault.
Sorry, I need to go.
Thank you for going out there... you can keep these tubers. Just... don't eat them.
Hello again! Thanks for rounding up those poisonous veggies! What a shock, haha. I was able to explain it to the market council.
They said I've got one more chance! Can you believe that! I've got my eyes on the prize this time— no more mix-ups!
It is said that one ought always to build bridges rather than walls. The Shadians of yore built both!
Hi there. I mainly work in furniture, but by the looks of your pack I doubt you're interested in buying a table or chair.
Not to worry though, I've got just the thing. How'd you like to buy a hand-crafted wooden bicycle?
It's all yours! Hop on!
How much is it?
How much is it again?
[Buy bicycle]
[Pick Topic]
Hope you're enjoying that bicycle! I just love seeing these things flying across the countryside!
That's crazy!
[Buy bicycle]
I don't have enough.
[Pick Topic]
Is it though? Just look at this bike! It's a feat of engineering! Riding it feels like flying! And it saves you so much time!
80 glowstones.
Oh. Well, if you ever do, I've got plenty in stock! They take me a good while to make but I'm getting faster at it. Gotta keep up with demand!
Hi again! Ready to buy a bicycle yet? You'll get around a lot faster!
Oh! Hello there. Eh... I must've left the door unlocked again. Can I help you?
-Will you review my portfolio?
Heard you're searching for a master artist.
You should hire me.
Alright, alright, let's see what you've got.
Some blue here... green... no— yellow!
Do you think so? Why would I do that?
I'm a master painter.
I heard you're overbooked.
I love the life flowing through abstract art! Unfortunately, there's not much interest for that style right now.
That makes sense.
That's too bad.
It's a little... blobby.
Hmm. Not a tactful one in any case. But, let's see what you have.
It's true. But, I don't hire just anyone. So let's see what you've got!
I know it's hard to understand! You realists are all so focused on accuracy of sight, that you miss the accuracy of the heart. Anyway— I won't try to convince you.
It is! I'd like to show people that there's more to the world than what we see with our eyes.
Okay, I'll tell Art Dealer the situation. Our customers write down their requests in a ledger back in the gallery. Take a look through and see if there are any requests you'd like to paint!
Rounder there... then a straight line here... yes, that looks better.
Anyway, your portfolio is exactly the kind of thing my customers love.
Red? Or... yes, just a touch of orange.
Well! These look fantastic! So much detail and what accurate depictions. You've got some skill here.
I spent years honing my skill, sharing my work with the people of Nava. But these days I'm no longer interested in realism.
How about this— I'm going to shut down my commissions. They've been leaving me uninspired this past year anyway. I'll pass on any new requests to you. Then I can really focus my time on these spots and blobs!
Thank you!
Yes?
[Pick Topic]
Never mind.
Oh! You found my amulet! I thought I lost it for good.
It's lucky I'm here.
It seemed important.
This is a key to my organization— the Roots. We're committed to the proper use of Dream Teas. The proper use being... to use them.
You seem like an honest person though. If you want to give it a try come visit us.
Well, yeah! We're just sleeping and dreaming after all.
Well, yeah. The Shez are always harassing us about it. They're upset because we use the 'holy' tea instead of leaving it to get moldy like they do.
My amulet... I don't know how this happened. I just wanted to look at it, but now it's gone.
Sorry, I don't feel like chatting right now.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
I'll say!
They have plenty of their own tea to sacrifice, but they want to 'rescue' ours specifically. You should hear the crazy plots they come up with to steal from us.
Maybe... don't mention any of this to them?
Although some people around here would have you think it's the worst thing imaginable to use the 'Holy' leaves to have a nice time.
Oh, hello. I'm not really in the mood to talk with anyone.
What are you doing?
What's wrong?
I lost something really important. It was like the key to everything! I just can't believe I lost it.
What was it?
Our meeting place is kind of hidden away. Not everyone in Nava understands Dream Teas, you know?
The door is on the outer wall of the city— facing toward the sea. Take the underground tunnel starting near the bread stand in Nava. There's a walkway that leads right to the entrance.
These amulets are our ticket inside, but you just tell the person behind the door that the password is 'Dreamland' and I'll make sure you get in.
I'll see you there sometime! Thanks again for finding my amulet!
We get our fair share of trouble from the Shez. They think tea should only be used for sacrifice. That's why we have to be so careful!
-I read about that on a wanted sign.
Is it safe?
There are some people who don't think the tea should be used for anything except rotting away. That's why we have to be so careful!
What's the password?
I don't know.
Never mind.
-Dreamland.
Then get lost.
Welcome, friend. We haven't seen you here before.
Hello!
It's good to see you!
Hi again!
[Pick Topic]
See you.
*crying* They've destroyed... everything.
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
You're from the Academy? Are you here to relieve us?
No, I'm just exploring.
Are things okay here?
Not what I'd call an ideal vacation spot for a green traveler like you.
What are you doing out here?
Well, yes. But we sent word nearly a week ago that we're in need of new supplies and... well, never mind.
What are you doing out here?
This amazing glacier behind me was discovered years ago, and we've been making progress to uncover the creature within. It'll be a long time before we can examine it fully.
But, during the excavation we found a tunnel leading deeper into the very ice we're standing on now! We've been putting most of our energy into exploring that area.
What's in the tunnel?
Can you show me?
Well, that's where we have a problem. It's seems whenever we try to explore the tunnel... Well, it's hard to say but... some of the team thinks we're being haunted...
You've seen ghosts?
Surely they don't actually think that.
Look, it's crazy,  but we've seen— and heard— a lot of strange things out here. Sometimes there are people on top of the glaciers, and sometimes we hear them calling out to us. And there have been shadows that follow us around...
I'd still like to see the caves.
I'm convinced— that cave is haunted.
I know it sounds ridiculous, but this place isn't normal. It just feels off. But maybe we're all just exhausted— it's been a long season.
Tell me about these hauntings.
Yeah... it would be nice to have someone else around. We're getting stir-crazy all by ourselves out here. Let's all get a good night's rest and I'll take you down first thing tomorrow.
That's how we're feeling at this point too. I don't blame you for wanting to keep away.
My crew is around— I'm working with two others. I'm sure they'd appreciate seeing a new face too. We've got an extra cot if you need it. Otherwise, feel free to set up a tent if you've got one.
Oh my gods— you're here to replace us?
No, sorry.
Ah— okay. Sorry, I had hoped...
How long have you been working here?
I heard things have been hard.
You're eager to leave?
I suppose it's been about a year now. Best day of my life when I set foot on this big old block of ice!
You sounded eager to leave.
We have ups and downs, but I always love the work! Lately though, it's more than that— we're being haunted by something. Grandmama used to tell me stories of  wretched spirits that roamed the shores.
She said the spirits would come find you if you ever did anything wrong. And now they've finally found me!
What did you do wrong?
They're just stories— no need to fear.
That's just it— I'm not completely sure... some days I'm a little lazy, but the wretched spirits wouldn't care about that, right? There were always way worse things in the stories!
You can say that, but I dare you to stay here for a night. There's definitely something out here. It's putting us all on edge.
I believe you— it's too spooky for me.
Okay, I will.
I plan to.
Really? Okay, good. You'll see.
Oh gods! if I could only figure out what I did wrong!
I think they're coming from the tunnel. That's when we started having all these weird things happening. I think we should seal it, but the others disagree.
Wretched spirits aren't real.
The spirits don't care about laziness.
Oh... uh, well... I'm not sure if that's actually permitted. If you think you can handle it you would need to talk to Excavator one. But I understand if you're too scared!
I've been reading about the culture that used to live on the glaciers. They had all kind of rituals and spells to protect their sacred areas. This seems like a tomb.
Seems like we might have struck a curse by opening this tunnel.
You mean magic?
How would you reverse it?
Shouldn't you close the tunnel?
No. A curse set in place by ancient and sacred rituals. We can't be sure how these things work, but it seems they do based on the terrible experiences we've had.
What's the purpose of this curse?
I'm looking into counter curses and it seems that plants could be burned to try to negate the powers of the curse,but, I guess they might also strengthen the curse if we burn the wrong ones. It's all very hard to pinpoint...
What's the purpose of this curse?
Are you in danger?
If it is a curse, then we've already been cursed. Closing it up wouldn't change that. The most we can do now is try to learn what we can from the tunnel.
What's the purpose of this curse?
What's in the tunnel?
As far as I can figure there must be something worth protecting in there. Some kind of magical artifact they knew modern culture wouldn't be able to handle...
The Academy is full of academics— not a soul there who believes in curses. So as far as the academy sees it our expedition is rigorous and harsh, but relatively low danger.
We've found markings on the walls, but there must be a magical artifact in there to go to this much work to protect it.
Er... not magical of course. I just meant sacred.
Anyway, it's been nice to talking someone new— these two are starting to drive me up the wall.
Hello, brave traveler! I can see you have an adventurer's spirit! I've got an excursion you're sure to love!
In that thing?
A flying excursion!
The ride is sure to give you a burst of adrenaline!
That's a terrible name.
It sounds exciting!
Right-o! Sharp as a knife you are! This here is the Bursting Bubble! It has the ability to take passengers all the way up to the mountaintop!
Why is it called the “Bursting Bubble?”
You think so? Well... let me think...
Ah! I'll call it the Sky Drop!
No.
Are you choosing awful names on purpose?
I like that one.
Yeah! That's a perfect name! Much better! Thanks, friend!
Summit of Eastshade?
Anything else?
This is the one.
Wait, go back.
Curiosity Lift?
Not that one.
Yes!
Wait, go back.
Never-land?
No, something else.
I like that one.
Wait, go back.
Moon's Shadow!
I don't think so.
That's a good one.
Wait, go back.
Zenith?
Not that.
Yes.
Wait, go back.
Bright Mirage?
That one works.
Wait, go back.
Sky Drop?
No, something else.
Yes.
You think so? I wish more people had your spirit! Last person here said they'd never ride it with a name that sounded so "dangerous!"
It does sound a little dangerous.
No, it's a perfect name.
Aha! What if I call it the Sky Drop!
Try another name.
That sounds great.
Oh, good! I thought it was spot on. I'll keep the name then.
You know, when I invented this thing I really thought it was going to revolutionize transportation!
They can't seem to picture a balloon carrying people in the sky. I've hardly been able to get anyone out here to see it in person!
Imagine just flying right up to the tip-top of the world! Seems like something everyone would want to do! But for some reason, folks just don't seem to understand the idea.
Anyhow, thanks for helping with the name, traveler. Seems to me that you're full of good ideas!
Hello, good traveler. Hope things are going well for you!
As for me, I still haven't got anyone new out here to fly with me. Shame, because I know anyone would love it if they saw it!
I've got it! How about you paint me and the balloon up in the air so people can get a real idea of how the flight will be?
Okay.
I'm pretty busy.
Great! I'll get ready for lift off!
What do you think, traveler? Can you paint my balloon in flight?
Okay.
I'm still busy.
Here, let me add some information on there.
[Offer Painting]
Just take a look at that! You've gone and painted my invention!
Say! Maybe this is just what people need to see to get them out here and interested in taking a flight!
Well! I knew it would look amazing in flight. You're pretty quick with that painting business!
This will work!
Hey, you didn't paint my balloon craft in flight! Should I take it airborne again?
Yes, I won't miss it this time.
Maybe later.
Drat. Well, you come back when you're ready, okay? I think a painting of my airborne balloon could really help business! I'll even give you a free ride!
Alright, that'll get people interested!
Now, it's up to you to make sure the kind folks of Eastshade see that flyer. Put it up somewhere with lots of traffic— I'm sure you'll find the perfect spot, traveler!
[Pick Topic]
Will do.
Say traveler, you haven't put up that flyer yet, have you? I haven't had a single person interested in the balloon!
My old partner, the traveler! We've done it! That flyer really did the trick. I've just had a whole group of adventurous folks looking to take flight!
Say, you've really saved my invention. How'd you like to take a ride up to the mountaintop?
That sounds great!
I can't right now.
Come on back when you're all ship-shape and ready to go!
That's the spirit! Hop in, pal!
Well, traveler? Are you ready for that ride?
Yes!
Not yet.
Let's make sure that ad is posted somewhere it will be seen! Somewhere like Nava or Lyndow should do the trick!
Aw drat. I just realized you don't have a coat and I can't take you up into the mountains without one! It's freezing up there after all! Surely you can get one in Nava.
Golly, here we are! Even more spectacular than I always dreamed. Feel free to walk around and take in the sights! I'll take you back down when you're finished.
Are you ready to head back?
Yes.
Not yet.
Thanks again for all your help. There's nothing so exciting as bringing people on a great adventure! Just let me know if you need another lift to the mountaintop, pal!
Well, what do you say? Up for a trip to the mountaintop?
Yes.
Not at the moment.
Oh, the sunlight glitters brightly, off the golden sandy shore, and the moonlight twinkles 'pon the waves 'til the sun comes out once more.
Hey, you ever been to the sea?
I've sailed it.
I've been to many beaches.
Ah, gosh, is that right? That's a dream of mine. My dad's cousin, Clara, is a magnificent captain of the seas— traveled north and south and all around.
I'm going to study at the University of Nava and try to join the Academy. I've been training for weeks!
Best of luck!
It's a nice campus.
What about this farm?
My dad loves the farm and I do too... but the sea! Just thinking of it makes me want to sing forever!
Maybe I could grow the company? Find a new port to export our crops? You never know!
Awful what these children have been through. We'll get them warm and fed and ready to greet their parents!
But with what's happened to these children... Well, the sea is something to be treated with caution. We'll find their parents, I'm sure of it.
You know how much I love the sea...
Blue skies, green seas, roll in the sweet summer tide for me!
What sweet children they are and finally safely reunited with their father! I just knew it would be a happy ending!
Thank you! Every night I dream about the sea... I know I'll set sail one day.
I've been there so many times, but I can't wait to live there. In the bustle of Nava, with so many shops... and people my age!
Hmm... Yes. Yes, I see.
You see what?
I can see all. And at the moment, I see you. I see everything about you.
Really?
Prove it.
I will prove nothing. Least of all to you. Be gone. Let Her Divinity take you.
Sorry. What do you see?
Okay, I'm leaving.
That's true.
Tell me more.
Wrong.
[Leave]
I see doubt. You sometimes question if you've chosen the right path.
I see you are hindered by restrictions others may impose on you.
And I can see you are of your own mind. You do not blindly follow.
I see you have vast untapped potential, which you have not yet fully utilized.
It is clear I see things in you, which you cannot yet see for yourself.
Yes... I think you are just the one I need. Tell me, have you heard of the Roots?
-Yes.
Never heard of it.
The use of teas by mortals is... loathsome. We Shez understand that Dream Teas were created by Tiem for use by Her alone. The tea must be offered only to Tiem.
I agree.
There's plenty of tea to go around.
Sounds like a waste.
Tiem sounds made up.
I could tell you were pure of heart from the moment I saw you.
I see that you are confused, but you'll understand in time.
The sinful use of Dream Tea must be stopped. The tea must be grown for Tiem or not at all. But the Roots members recognize us well. We need you. Will you accept this command from Tiem?
I'll do it.
What exactly are you asking of me?
They are a group with lazy tendencies, and hedonic inclinations. The Holy Tea is sacred and should only be used for sacrifice to Her divinity.
A pure soul you have. Her Divinity will surely shine on you.
You must take this vial of Tiem's Antidote and splash it on the Roots' tea vine. A single splash on a single leaf will do. You must first gain access to their ranks, if you haven't already. It may be hard, but Tiem is with you.
There is wickedness in your soul. But nothing that Her Divinity won't forgive in time.
They are a club in Nava. They slink around the sewers like rats. Stealing and wasting Tiem's gifts.
I see... I won't ask how. Or about what sins you have committed. You're a child of Tiem now. Will you take the vial, child?
I'm already a member.
What will the Antidote do?
Okay.
I'm not going to do that.
You needn't ask, for it is a command of Tiem. She delivered it to me directly. It is not our place to question her.
We all lose our path sometimes. We must open our minds and our hearts to Tiem. She will guide us back to the light.
Have you decided to hear Tiem's song, child? Will you answer Her command?
No.
What are you asking of me?
Go then, child. Go to where the Roots slink. End their terrible reign of depravity. And know that Tiem smiles upon you!
You have done as Tiem has commanded. For this you will surely be rewarded in the spirit world.
That is undoubtedly the true reward. But for your efforts the Shez can offer you a small sum here in this world.
You will always be welcome here with the Shez, child.
Tiem blesses you, child.
Leave us you heathen. You think I don't know what you did?
I SEE ALL!
Tiem will serve you justly in the end.
Have you come to help us build her lord's obelisk?
What's that?
Yes.
Very well. You must talk to Samiya.
You have not heard. Then you must speak with Samiya. She will tell you.
We must not speak to one another. Only to Samiya.
Oh, hello there. Mind the plants underfoot!
Hello again.
I overheard your conversation with Bojan— he'll be so excited to have you as a friend! He's a very special individual. There's no one who loves rafting as much as he does!
Though he can be difficult at times, he's a kind soul. I appreciate your cordialness.
What can I do for you?
I spend a lot of time studying and documenting new plant life. Just yesterday I believe I discovered a new sort of lily pad!
Ah! A blossoming botanist, I see! To start you'll need some roots. You can find them at the bases of trees. I can show you how to make twine, but it is a process.
What a lovely sandy beach you've painted! Would you be willing to give it away for the opportunity to learn?
[Give painting]
I'm fond of it myself.
I see you're a painter. I would so love some artwork in my home...
I look forward to seeing your work!
I understand. I'd be very proud of it if it were my own creation.
This is splendid! It will be the prized piece of my sitting room! Now, here's how to make twine...
I overheard your conversation with Bojan. He gets a little grumpy sometimes, but he doesn't mean any harm. Would you be willing to give him a second chance? He really is a kind person.
I suppose I can try.
I'm not sure this will work out.
Thank you, it really means a lot to the both of us.
He just doesn't know the right way to act sometimes. It would mean a lot to the both of us if you tried.
I overheard you making amends with Bojan. He's a very special individual. Thank you so much for giving him one more chance.
What do you say? If you make me a painting I'll teach you how to make twine?
I'll see what I can do.
I'm quite partial to sandy beaches...
What do you do in Eastshade?
-How can I make twine?
[Pick Topic]
Goodbye.
I saw some birds flying around a few nights ago. They were so graceful!
What! You painted that owl! Can I buy it from you?
You've got a real ear for birds! Let me know if you ever need anything.
But... why not?
I just can't stop thinking about those owls I saw.
What sound did your owls make?
See you later.
[Pick Topic]
Hoo! Hoo! Thanks for the painting!
[Pick Topic]
You're welcome.
I especially liked the ones that do this: Hoo-hoo!
What a fun way to talk. Hoo!
Hoo-hoo!
This is great! Hoo! Hoo!
Is this too many glowstones? I wouldn't know! I've never bought a painting before!
[Offer Painting]
No, sorry.
[Pick Topic]
Glad you like it.
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
We are no longer speaking!
Hello, good friend!
... .....
What's that you're sitting on?
Are you alright?
I see. We are no longer on speaking terms then. Farewell.
It is a Bloomsac raft.
It looks quite peculiar.
Did you make it?
It does not. It looks quite nice if you ask me. I made it after all.
Will you teach me how?
I understand. Quite reasonable. Let us begin learning about one another.
Alright.
Is your favorite color orange or yellow?
Orange.
Yellow.
Neither of those is my favorite.
Mhm, I see. Now, if you had to choose between eating slugs or cakes... which would you eat?
Definitely slugs.
I guess I'd rather eat cakes.
Do you eat slugs?
You are very strange! Everyone knows cakes taste better. Maybe I should try another slug...
Oh, wondrous! Here— now we can sit on rafts together!
Maybe I can make you some slug cakes...
No... Why would you ask that?
I feel as if I have come to know you very well. Would you agree that we can be friends now?
I don't see why not!
Maybe later.
My only requirement is that you be my friend. One of my best friends, to be exact.
Maybe we should first get to know each other a bit.
Of course! I think we'll be great friends!
I don't think that's a good idea.
Hmm. Maybe you'll see reason after making a Bloomsac raft. I'll teach you now.
You will need some twine to keep it all together. I don't know how to make that, but Onur has a lot of it.
Thanks, Bojan!
We are not friends.
I think we should be.
We're certainly not.
Of course.
What's that you're sitting on?
I did.
Will you teach me how?
Don't be hasty. We've only just met. There are some things I need to know about you first.
Alright.
I might. But only if you meet the right requirements.
This next one will be tricky...
If you saw a frog stranded all alone on a lily pad, what would you do?
Leave it be.
Isn't that normal for frogs?
Devote myself to rescuing it.
I wouldn't have expected that kind of dedication from you!
Just because it's normal, doesn't mean it's acceptable. Please, consider how the frogs feel about it!
That is rather heartless... Don't let the frogs hear you speaking that way.
... .....
You also need wax. And that's very hard to find. Sometimes I steal candles. But don't tell Onur!
Where's your raft?
[Pick Topic]
I'll see you around.
I like to go walking over there. It's nice to take in the sea air from time to time.
Onur took me to it once. I found a crab there and brought it home. It ran away though.
That place is haunted. Every time I go there I hear weird sounds.
That building was part of the original town of Lyndow. I've heard a ghost has taken up residence inside!
If you're interested in an adventure, it's a lovely spot for a nighttime stroll.
What? I don't know. Is that in Old Lyndow? That used to be the main town.
Oh yes, I saw that from the ship. It looked as if there was a light coming from inside. Could it be a lighthouse?
Towers like that were used to send fire signals to Nava, but we don't need to do that anymore.
It's a bit eerie, but late the other night I thought I saw lights coming from inside the tower...
It's probably just some kids playing a prank.
I haven't seen it. It's part of Old Lyndow though, so it probably isn't worth seeing anyway.
I remember playing in there as a kid! The ocean looks beautiful from the top. I wish it wasn't locked up.
And some nights the windows light up! It's kind of creepy... I'm not scared of ghosts, though.
Some kids told me there's a pack of wild ghosts in there. No idea if that's true. I don't mess around with ghosts.
Because of how you helped Azad... I'll vouch for you. Here is your letter.
Hmm... Frankly I don't know you all that well. And I'm not terribly fond of visitors.
Hoo! For a friend like you? Of course!
Mmm... I can't say I know you all that well.
Any friend of Bojan's is a friend of mine! Here.
I'm afraid I barely know you!
Listen, I don't know you all that well.
Sure, I can vouch for you. You really got me out of a pinch there with that waterfox!
Didn't I already write you one of those?
Yeah, I wrote you one.
I gave you one already!
My dear friend, I already gave you one!
I'm afraid I already gave you one!
For a friend like you? Of course! Enjoy the city!
I'm afraid I don't quite know you.
We are not friends!
Hmm, I think Onur can do that.
I would if I could! But I'm not a resident here!
I will not write you a reference. We already have too many vagrants in Nava for my tastes.
Sure, I can do that for you!
Oh, I'm sorry. I don't think I can help you there. We've only just met!
As far as I know, he left Lyndow a long time ago and never returned. Unfortunately, he and I did not get along terribly well.
I think architects build things.
Ah, that would be Azad. A brilliant, brutally honest, and highly misunderstood man. Undoubtedly too curt for his own good. Perhaps that was why many Lyndow folk found it difficult to maintain amicable relations with him.
That poor man. He had quite a gruff personality. Not very sociable, but I don't think he meant to offend people.
Why does everyone think I have something to do with his disappearance? I've never seen him and I certainly haven't taken him as a passenger!
His disappearance was all very mysterious. I don't believe anyone's seen him in a long time.
I've heard of him. A terrible man— just horrible. And not very good looking either. They say he disappeared and I say good riddance.
Can you believe he came up with the plan for this city by himself? I'd love to meet him.
He's some really old guy, I'm pretty sure.
I hope he's very happy wherever he is.
This Elixir of Life seems to be quite a trending product in this city, and if this Melek fellow is charging hard-earned glowstones from these folks, I'd like to know the truth of it.
My elixir harnesses the strength of life! Trusted by all and guaranteed to stretch your days, you can't go wrong with stocking up! What do you say? A dozen bottles? An entire crate?
Don't even.
You and I ended that little scam quite handily, didn't we?
Eh, it's pretty clearly a load of scragweed. But hey, I don't blame the guy for trying to make a few glowstones.
Hmm. I can't say the product is for me. But Melek's always been nice enough!
Is that what that guy's selling over there? Sheesh. Wonder how he landed a spot in the market with that. Who even buys that stuff?
Honestly? I think it works. I've been drinking it for ages. Who knows, maybe I'd have croaked by now without it.
Doubt it does anything. Probably a scam, I'd say.
Well, my sister thinks it works. She buys it by the crate and drinks a bottle every day. Personally, I don't have an opinion on the matter. Maybe it works. Maybe it doesn't. But what I do know is that I don't care much for Melek.
When he first set up shop here, he was snooping around my wares. Saw one of my bicycles and asked if he could give it a go. 'Course I said sure. All us shopkeepers are pretty friendly and we like to check out each others wares from time to time.
Well, he's not the most athletic fellow I've seen and couldn't quite get it goin'. He took a splat. A few of us were watchin'. Must admit it was a little hard not to laugh but we were good sports and held a straight face. Made sure he was okay and all that.
Anyway, then the guy goes on a tirade about what a stupid contraption it is, and how dumb folks look while riding it. Right to my face he says all this! Been making these bicycles for decades and I happen to be pretty proud of my work!
Your bicycles are wonderful.
Maybe he was embarrassed.
Well, thank you for saying so! I think they're wonderful too.
Anyhow, never thought much of Melek after that.
I'm sure he was. Didn't need to take it out on my life's work though. It was hard for me to take that.
That elixir is good old-fashioned Navian hogwash. Just about everyone knows it.
*sigh* But the few who don't seem to buy it by the crate. And so it remains taking up space in our market.
It's kind of sad to see how many people believe in that stuff.
I guess it's fine, if it makes them happy?
Like my clothes? You can't have them.
Fabric? We go through loads of it! Here, these lengths are defective for shipping, but will perhaps serve your purposes.
I think the dock workers use fabric sacks with the incoming and outgoing shipments. You might ask one of them.
There's fabric all around us! Just look! Or ask that dock worker over there.
I think the dock workers use fabric sacks with the incoming and outgoing shipments. You might ask one of them.
I think the dock workers use fabric sacks with the incoming and outgoing shipments. You might ask one of them.
I think the dock workers use fabric sacks with the incoming and outgoing shipments. You might ask one of them.
I think the dock workers use fabric sacks with the incoming and outgoing shipments. You might ask one of them.
I think the dock workers use fabric sacks with the incoming and outgoing shipments. You might ask one of them.
Yeah, I bought one. I knew it was a toxic tuber. It was pretty obvious.
Goodness, I almost fed this to my grandmother! Thanks for finding me.
I... I need to go now.
Ooooh, great. Yeah, I bought one. Ate it already. How long is this going to last?
It'll be over before you know it!
Several hours...
I am going to kill Tam.
I already used it in a ritual, so you can't buy it back.
I didn't try to buy any zucchinis. I grow my own at home!
Poor Tam. He tries, but things just don't seem to work out for him!
Here, you take it back— I don't need it!
What... are you serious... okay. Well, I bought some, but I definitely didn't eat them! I'd never make that kind of mistake... I just don't have them anymore. Threw 'em away! Huh huh...
Yes, you already asked. I nearly gave it to my grandmother for dinner! Thanks for tracking it down.
Medve... it sounds familiar for some reason... I think it's the name of the last park ranger we had in the Great Shade. He passed a few years ago. Or was it the grandmother of Lady Samira? I can't recall exactly...
Medve is an old bearfolk family name. A few bearfolk around here have ancestors named Medve. Our own ranger Viktar down at the National Park is one that comes to mind. His ancestors were voyagers long ago.
That box! Lady Samira said she lost a box in the Howling Caverns. No one believed her! It belonged to her mother's... dad's... best friend? Or was it that Lady Samira hid the box there because bearfolk were trying to steal it from her...
Or she was stealing it from the bearfolk? I can't really remember anymore. You should tell her though! She'll be so happy.
From what I've heard around town Lady Samira also has family in the Medve line.
Lady Samira does have a bit of a reputation for uh... acquiring things that belong to other people...
Have you asked Viktar? He's the park ranger out by the Great Shade. I think his family line is Medve.
But Lady Samira has long been interested in a box she supposedly lost out by the Tiffmoor Bluffs.
I haven't heard of Medve before. Your box has been finely crafted. Must hold something special inside. I'd ask around in Nava if I were you. Shopkeepers are especially good at collecting rumors.
It's loud there. Travelers are always bustling in and out and causing a raucous.
We've got great plant diversity and I can always get imported teas from the storehouse. We've also got more wild bloomsac than anywhere else.
Lyndow is okay. It has the ocean, but I don't take my raft in there. I like this river better.
Lyndow used to be right on the river until a mudslide destroyed most of the town. After that the townspeople relocated to the coast.
It's a bit more calm than Nava. I think it's quite a nice place to relax.
It's really a terrible place to be stranded. A ship-murdering town.
Lyndow is certainly much colder than I expected! This is only my second time visiting. I was just a kid last time I came.
It's a dramatic destination. I'll be the envy of my friends when I get home!
Lyndow is a nice port town. Although we don't have much to export anymore— aside from bloomsacs. And most of our tourism these days are just people passing through; on their way in or on their way out of Nava.
It's the quaint little seaside town we'll be landing in. It's one of the many gems of the country, I hear.
You might have met my old friend Nika— she runs the inn over there. We used to get into a lot of trouble together!
deleted
After that wreck... I may just settle down here for a while!
Oh, it's the most wonderful city! Much better than this place... I can hardly believe I managed to get myself here alive!
A beautiful city! And very straightforward, cartographically speaking.
Many of the folk from Old Lyndow moved there after the mudslide. The library there is of historic note.
Mmm, city folk. It's like they've never seen a trail before! Always trampling through the foliage like animals!
Fancy, fancy city folk. But they do buy my pots.
Believe it or not I've never been. I'm not sure Bojan would care much for the bustle.
What's that?
I was looking at a map on the way over. If I remember right, Nava is also located on a small island— just like Lyndow. And there's a large forested park you'd pass through on the way there.
Nava, Lyndow— not a fan. What with all the people and all.
I lived there for a few years working as a baker. I do miss the bustle of the city sometimes.
It's a shiny kind of place. You heading there now?
Yes.
No.
I heard there's an art supplies store. Seems like something you might like.
I've lived here all my life. It's really developed into quite a prosperous little boomtown! There's a real energy here. I don't ever want to leave.
I've been sewing professionally for 30 years, but only 2 years ago was I able to have a proper stand here in the market. Exciting times!
I used to live on the mainland years ago, working as a bricklayer. Was terrible! Hated every minute.
Then my grandma died, bless her soul, and left me a sum. Quit my job that day and got the first ship here, for no reason in particular. Just wanted to leave. Bought this dumpy floor for dirt cheap. Didn't really know what I was doing.
Now this city's a boomtown! And I'm living off the reverse mortgage. Just goes to show... act impulsively and sometimes you get rich! That's what I've learned anyway. Oh, and have an inheritance.
I love it here. There's really no part of town I'd be worried to let my two daughters play unsupervised.
I moved here right out of college when my long-time-resident aunt wrote me about a job opening in the library. It was quite a great distance for me to move, considering it was a bit of a paltry opening at the time. But twenty years later, as head librarian, I can't say I have any regrets!
One thing I can say about the folks here— they never ask for swords. Which pleases me greatly, because swords are just about the most boring things you could ask a blacksmith to make.
I'd rather make a kettle any day of the week.
The only thing more boring than making a sword is being dead. Which, coincidentally, is what swords are used for. Which is another reason why I'm glad folks around here don't ask me to make them.
Well... I've never really given it much thought, to be honest. It's just the place I've always lived. S'pose I take it for granted a bit. It's a dreamy place to live, isn't it?
Yevheniy keeps me busy enough. My family likes it here. Couldn't ask for much more.
Well, I guess if I *had* to list a complaint it'd be that some of our patrons can be a little picky. And with the poor ocean access most of our fish come from Lyndow— so they're not as fresh as we had back on the mainland.
But that's all a bit nit-picky. Well, look at me— I sound like one of our customers!
You know, it's so strange. Somebody came in just this morning and donated a book. She said to point people to it if anyone asks about night drumming. Which made very little sense to me considering this book appears to be unrelated to that. Not that I'm entirely sure what night drumming is.
And then here you are asking about that very topic! So are you a... night... drummer? Am I saying that right? Is this some new thing people are doing? I'm always so behind the times!
No. It's something curious I saw.
Sounds curious indeed! Anyway, the book is called "The First Folk" and it's on shelf C.
It was a little peculiar. Just about every sentence she said was a rhyme. Not sure if she meant to do that or she was just doing it by accident. An interesting woman! I quite liked her!
Ah! It was you they saw in the dead of night! That makes sense, all is right!

You see more than others do, That's all I'll say— away with you!

Woah. That must have been pretty strange to find. No, I don't know anything about that. Sorry.
Is that right? Well, I'll say that's pretty strange. I wonder if those folks would be interested in my elixir...
Have you tried talking to Leela? She's the head librarian at the University. She knows just about everything. Helped me find an obscure text on ancient woodworking techniques. Maybe she knows something about these drummers.
Hmm... Haven't heard of anything like that. There are some things that can only be understood with a trip to the library!
You should ask Leela. She's our head librarian. She knows an awful lot about a lot of things.
It's on the second floor of this building. Don't be too shy to ask a librarian for help if you need it.
Old Lyndow was a beautiful town, but the architecture is far more interesting in Lyndow.
It was destroyed such a long time ago. I was only a child, so I barely remember what it looked like.
I'm not supposed to take my raft over there, but I do sometimes because lots of frogs live there.
That's where we all used to live. There was just so much rain one year! Luckily, we had the foresight to get out before the mudslide. No one got physically hurt, but the whole town was devastated.
Old Lyndow was a perfectly lovely port city. If that had been our destination we wouldn't be in this mess.
The original town built on the river? I remember hearing that it got destroyed in a mudslide. I heard that when I was really young.
Hmm... I'm not very interested in old things. New things are so much more beautiful!
That was the original Lyndow. The town got destroyed after it rained every day for a solid month... The hill just slid away. There might be some stuff worth salvaging out there.
That place is neat. My mom takes me there sometimes, but I'm not allowed to go by myself.
That's where I live when I'm not camping! My house was the only thing standing after the mudslide.
Why didn't you move to 'new' Lyndow?
I think I saw your house.
Moving all those books just seems like too much trouble. Besides, what could be more fun than living in a ghost town?
I think I saw your house.
I'm certain you did! Did you manage to take a peek inside?
No... That would be trespassing.
Yes... The curtain was open.
I welcome all who are interested in learning.
Oh, good! I hope you found something to read that was of interest to you!
There's a fellow living out there in that old library. Sometimes he camps just up the trail— to the left of the fountain behind you. He's always asking if I have feathers in stock— but I don't! Because I sell pots! What a kook!
Apparently he was hiding in that old tower all along! What a nut!
Perhaps I'll try again to become friends with him.
Whatever you said to him... thank you. He really wasn't happy hiding away like that.
He's in town. I wonder how good he is at building rafts...
That's the man who built the town, right? I think he's over in the museum.
An interesting turn of events, isn't it? I never thought he'd come back to Lyndow.
Have you met him? He's over in the museum, if you want to!
He stopped here for a bit, but now he's up in the museum. He hasn't changed at all!
He's just as grouchy as I've always heard. And he kept staring at the walls and ceiling...
I heard he's returned to Lyndow! I should go talk with him after work.
A group of degenerates. They lay in pools of water, drinking hallucinogenic teas and raving about their 'otherworldly' experiences.
They'll try to trick you into believing it only alters your dreams— but don't believe them! Their goal is to consume all the tea that rightfully belongs to the Goddess Tiem. And the authorities are utterly useless in the matter!
If you want to support and aid the sanctity of the tea you should seek out the Shez as soon as possible.
They're a group of people who like drinking this special tea because it makes you have better dreams.
My brother loves drinking the tea, but it's so boring. I mean, it just makes you dream! You're asleep the whole time!
They hang out in the cistern under the city, but sometimes they have meetings on the Seltspring Coast beach.
They're a group that highly appreciates the consumption of Dream Teas. The teas are made with herbs that stimulate dreams.
It's quite interesting how the chemicals work on the brain. They are safe in moderation; the largest risk being that when sleeping with Dream Teas one gets very little rest, since the brain is actually more stimulated than during the day.
There was a Dream Party out on the Seltspring Coast a few nights ago. Who knows, maybe you can make the right connections and get a chance to try some.
That's just where you should head if you're interested in the true Eastshadian tea experience!
Unless you're a member of the Shez, of course. Then it would not be ideal.
Is it illegal?
Oh, no. The Shez wish it was. It's a matter of faith for them. They don't think anyone should use the tea in an unholy manner.
Is it safe?
Completely! Just a little magic for your dreams.
Oh! You know about us! I wish I could invite you to join the group and drink some tea...
But we have to be really wary of the Shez. They're always trying to destroy our plants.
Ah, I'm already in enough trouble since I lost my amulet... If the Shez find it they could infiltrate our tearoom! It would be all my fault!
We're a very old community of people with a passion for exploration of the mind. Our practices have been dying out due to criticism from other religions...
The founders of the Roots believed that Dream Teas were given to us by the goddesses as a way to visit the other worlds they've created.
Is that what you believe?
Can I try some?
How do Dream Teas work?
The chemicals in these teas affect the way you dream, letting you visit places that may not exist in our world.
Certainly!
Each blend has its own properties with different effects. Please select a tea and step into a boat to enjoy an exciting dream.
Would you like to select a tea?
Yes.
No, thanks.
Certainly not! But it's a romantic story nonetheless!
Well, either way we are glad to have you here. Please stay and relax with us in this peaceful place.
Sleep well!
We only ask that you do not leave with the teas in your possession. This is the best place to use them.
But what if you're part of the Shez... then maybe I shouldn't tell you any of this!
Just one of the many cultural pastimes of Nava. They're usually pretty secretive though.
You might've seen some signs plastered around demanding you report the Roots. Fine. Everyone's got their own opinions. Just don't report them to me— there's nothing illegal about their organization.
Oh, have you been there yet? It's pretty great. Just relax, have a lovely nap. Really a nice way to spend an afternoon.

It's all just a really long feud. It tore my dad's family apart, I guess. But you should just talk to the Shez directly. They're the ones looking for information.
It's kind of like a club. People go under the city to drink Dream Teas, relax, unwind.
It used to be open for everyone, but it's pretty locked down now. Some folks have been trying to destroy or steal their tea plants, so they had to get real protective.
The latest science actually considers it a form of exercise for your brain!
The Shez are the religious group that actually use the teas out of respect for our Goddess Tiem. They have a temple on the Tiffmoor Bluffs.
They're a faith group. They think our use of the teas is sacrilegious and that their goddess will smite them or something if they don't steal everyone else's tea.
I think they're kind of like the Roots. They love Dream Teas too, but they believe only their gods should be able to drink them.
If you know anything about the Roots cult, you should tell them!
The Shez insist that the Dream Teas should be sacrificed to Tiem, their goddess. They grow the teas, care for them, then leave the plants to waste. That's fine for them, but now they want to confiscate all of our tea too!
-They asked me to sabotage you.
[Say nothing]
What? What did they ask you to do?
Put this on your tea vine.
Oh my... This is a step further than they've ever gone. Ugh! I hate that we have to deal with this nonsense! These nonsense people and their nonsense cause!
Could I have this vial? I don't know exactly what it does, but I can only imagine it's a virus that will kill our tea vine.
[Give Tiem's Antidote]
I'll keep it.
Thank you. I will have this safely disposed of.
Thank you for bringing this information to me. We will have to take extra precautions to protect ourselves and our vines from these zealots. Sheesh, these people have really outdone themselves!
Just please be careful with it! And certainly keep it away from our tea vine! The plants are many generations old. Tending to them is my life's work. I can't even describe to you how important they are to me.
I just can't believe they would try to destroy our tea vine like that! I can't tell you how much I appreciate you passing along that information. We'll have to be cautious.
Here. As a token of my thanks, please take this book. It went out of print years ago. I think I've just about memorized everything in it. From one explorer to another, I think some of these brews will pique your interest.
It's annoying though, because they already have plenty of tea and it all just rots away. But still they want more.
They've been covering the city in flyers, demanding folk to report their neighbors. It's a bit unsettling really.
Can't say who's got the right of it— the Shez or the Roots, but it's been a long struggle. Not looking forward to seeing how it all ends.
I don't know much about the group, other than that it's some sort of spiritual gathering. But they do love Dream Tea. It's sacred to them.
I think my father-in-law belongs to their group. I should ask him about it.
Oh yes, I don't care about that. The Shez are the ones who posted that wanted bulletin. You should talk to them.
Oh yeah, the Shez are real nutty about those drugs.
My book was taken from right under my nose!
Hmm. I'm not supposed to give those out to patrons. There's a bit of construction going on right now.
I'd like to paint up there.
I see.
Well, that sounds lovely! Why don't you talk to Zahra about this? She has an office on the next floor up and probably a bit more clearance to fudge the rules!
I know it's a spectacular view. Beyond that though— is there any reason specifically you need to be up there?
I want to paint up there.
I just want to admire the view.
I see. Well, I'll tell you what— help me with discovering the truth about Melek's elixir and I'll get you a pass.
Like I said, help me with discovering the truth about Melek's elixir and I'll be sure to get a pass for you.
Fine. Here. Take one.
Oh, that's right! Here you are!
Hi, I'm Amir. You're going to crack this case, right? My girlfriend and I were supposed to play a show tonight. Oh, this is horrible.
I need some leads first.
You seem pretty eager to leave...
I don't know if this will help, but there was someone down on the beach late last night. I couldn't sleep, so I was looking out my window at the lake— searching for inspiration. But, yeah... someone was down there.
Which room is yours?
Could you see who it was?
Yeah... I am. I just told you that. We were really hoping to play in Nava tonight...
I couldn't tell. They seemed like they might be... tall... maybe? But certainly mysterious.
Who did you see on the beach?
Which room is your again?
Seen anything strange?
-Tiffmoor Ruins?
That's all.
Just past the innkeeper's counter. You can go in— the door's unlocked. We figured since we don't have any interesting books, we're probably safe from the thief.
Did you figure it out yet?
That business man Vadim is pretty strange. Obsessed with money. He's given me several nasty looks. And the woman over in the corner... Belinda? She keeps giggling at everyone!
Thanks for working on this case, Detective. We were worried we'd be trapped here forever...
They're a point of controversy around here. Some people want them opened to the public and some people think they're a sacred space. I understand that the ancient people wouldn't have wanted us to disturb their tomb, but it would have been pretty neat to play a show in there!
Oh, we're not really taking new visitors... there's been an incident. But, with the storm...
Well, I'll give you the room we were planning to give the detective. We're just about full otherwise.
Sounds like there's been trouble here.
Got some unpleasant visitors?
There's been a theft in one of the rooms. The police are on their way now, though it might take a while.
Don't worry though! The thief wouldn't dare strike again!
What was taken?
Some sort of important book... Real valuable I'd guess by the way Mr. Historian is reacting. I don't claim to understand what it does, I just know we can't have any thieves making an escape.
Any leads on who did it?
You must have a prime suspect?
We've got all kind of weirdos here. It could be just about any one of them. They're all exhausting me.
Look, since we've got this shady business going on here I'm not going to charge you. You can have a room upstairs. First door on your right.
Since the criminal still hasn't been found, I've taken the liberty of locking everyone's boat ashore. Shouldn't be traveling in the storm anyway.
Most of the guests are napping right now though— so it's nice and quiet for the moment.
What a mess this is.
You're making great strides, Detective. I know you'll have this sorted out in no time.
You know I'm not the detective...
I'll crack the case wide open!
Oh! Right... Well anyway, I'm sure you'll find the culprit.
Why don't you take these keys to continue your investigation of the suspects and their rooms.
-Selling the inn?
What's the story of this old inn?
Any suspects?
-Tell me about the Tiffmoor Ruins.
Bye.
Been thinking about it. This place is empty most of the time. Tourism on the Tiffmoor Bluffs isn't what it once was. And the milling industry isn't all fancy and upcoming like before.
Got that letter in the mail just a few days ago. Seems like my ticket out of here. This place gets a little too gloomy for me.
My great-great-grandparents built it as a way-point for expeditions north and for folks building windmills on the Tiffmoor Bluffs.
It's well past its glory days, and I can't imagine this situation is going to do much to boost its reputation.
Strange thing— she arrived around noon, coming from Nava. A few hours later the historian arrived, followed by Helena and that businessman, Vadim.
The student went off to her room. Figured she wanted an early start in the morning. But then she came out a little after sunset, bags all packed, telling me she had to leave and take care of an emergency.
I felt bad for her having to leave in the night like that.
I've got no doubt!
At any rate, it looks you don't have much choice but to stay. The storm is raging out there!
Ah well, I'm happy to hear there's something of interest in those ruins. I guess Vadim won't want to buy my inn anymore, but maybe we'll get more interest now anyway. Who knows, I just might convert one of these rooms into a ruins museum!
Just about everyone in this area has an opinion on them. Indigenous people think no one should even look at them. Most everyone else just wants to see what's inside!
I had a pal who snuck inside when we were kids. She wouldn't tell me what she saw in there though. Kind of doubt she actually did it.
We have at least one unpleasant visitor and several upset ones...
Not exactly... Well, there was this University student.
You don't look like any detective I've ever seen. I won't be answering your questions.
-Glyphs?
Have you seen anything strange?
-Tell me about the Tiffmoor Ruins.
That's all.
That's an old poem from the native people on the Tiffmoor Bluffs. I keep it with me as a reminder to always be thankful.
Yes, I have. Those musicians have been desperate to get out of here since the moment the book went missing.
I don't think you're a real detective at all.
They've been singing all kinds of obnoxious songs about this situation. Annoying fiends!
Those ruins mean everything to me. All I've ever wanted is to preserve that sacred ground.
So. You actually weren't the detective after all.
I just had to see if there was anything in the ruins... All my life I've believed there's nothing but spirits in there.  I've started to see that no one else believes that. I can't afford for the land to go to science— science doesn't pay!
I took the book and planned to sneak inside the ruins— just take a peek. I wouldn't have destroyed anything, and if I found something I would have reported it to the University right away.
Vadim made an offer on the land. He suggested running his own excavation for sacred objects, but really I knew he would do everything possible to destroy what he found.
But my heart couldn't afford for the ruins to be opened as a tourist location. I just thought the translation book might hold some answers for me... Might help me solve this puzzle.
Now the ruins will be opened to the University... We'll just have to see what happens.
Who are you? You don't look like the authorities. Another suspect! When did you get here!
I paddled in a few minutes ago.
You're behaving suspiciously yourself.
I heard something was stolen.
Oh, sure! Well, watch yourself— there's a thief on the loose and no one's even trying to catch them!
What did they take?
The scoundrel! Who would do that?
Well, yes! Something was stolen. From right under my nose, they did it!
What did they take?
The scoundrel! Who would do that?
My translation book. It contains runes that would allow me to enter and learn more about the Tiffmoor Ruins. It's highly sensitive and confidential information!
I was on my way to the ruins when the thief made their move. Very few people know about the translation book— someone must've been following me!
That's very suspicious.
We'll get to the bottom of this.
I have my guesses, but it's too soon to say for sure.
What's the stolen item?
And the authorities! Delayed by a 'boating mishap!' At this rate the thief is going to slip away in the night!
Look, we've already searched everyone's trunks. The book isn't here... Thief’s got it hidden somewhere else!
But maybe if you take a look you'll find something that points to the killer! Er... I mean, the thief!
I'd better take a look.
This place is teeming with suspicious folk.
-Glyphs?
-Medication?
-Letter of dismissal?
-Tell me about the Tiffmoor Ruins.
I'm working on it.
What? You found this here? Why... I can't fully translate it, but I think this is describing a poem about cattle. Or about gold. Ah, I need my translation book!
Why are you searching through my things! I only opened my trunk so the suspects would feel more comfortable opening theirs!
Ehm. I would appreciate if you mind my privacy. I am the victim here after all!
Well? Has the culprit made any mistakes?
It's true I'm being let go from my position at the University, but this is my life's work we're talking about. I can't just abandon this when I'm so close to finding all the answers!
But really, Detective— this is a waste of time! You should be investigating the actual suspects!
Surely I can't be a suspect in this crime! That medication is my private business!
We need clues! Leads! Anything to move this case along!
Best wishes and... ehm... sorry for accusing you of taking my translation book. I'm sure you understand.
It's alright.
Good luck with everything.
Well, after we recover the translation book from Helena, maybe I can get my position at the University back as well.
On an unrelated note: I saw the... shall we call it the 'watercraft' you arrived here in...
I've drawn up some instructions for you on how to build a reed boat. They're commonly used around here. No need for... whatever that thing is...
You'll also find reed boats quite capable of coastal travel. I can't imagine your contraption there is.
The ruins have always been important to her. I only hope I can preserve them for future generations. And imagine what we can learn about the past!
Eventually, I hope it will be better this way. If we uncover even one artifact the ruins will be protected forever. No tourists, no names carved in the walls by hooligans, no trash tossed around. Just a bastion of history...
-
The ruins are an incredibly rich source of heritage and culture for the people of Eastshade. I believe that within the ruins there are relics that would help us understand our beginnings on this island.
But somehow there are people who think history is a waste a time! And they've thwarted my efforts of discovery at every turn!
You'll need heavy reeds— they're wider and flatter than the usual sort.
Uh... hi... I'm not really sure what's going on.
You've walked into the scene of a crime.
Heard you packed up pretty quick last night.
Ever heard of the Tiffmoor Ruins?
Of course. Those halls belonged to my ancestors, and my aunt lives on the property. I mean, for now. She's probably going to have to sell it.
Oh, right... There was an emergency... but don't worry— everything's okay now!
Why'd you leave so suddenly yesterday?
Ever heard of the Tiffmoor Ruins?
-Journal?
I'll need to inspect your trunk.
Eh... Okay, you caught me, alright? I know how to get into the ruins and I've been going in there for years! Is that what you want to know? So yes, it was me!
What about the translation book?
How did you enter the ruins?
Translation book? I don't know what you're talking about...
A book related to the ruins was stolen.
Look... I can't tell you that.
What about the translation book?
I... oh... gosh. I— I thought you were looking for a trespasser...
Did you steal the treasures in your suitcase?
Who would benefit from access to the ruins?
Where are you going now?
I didn't steal them. They belong to my ancestors!
Um, everyone! Except my aunt and my parents who think the ruins need to stay empty for our old spirits. But there aren't any spirits! I've been in there a hundred times.
I just wanted to bring home one last reminder of the ruins. I was hoping to defend them like my aunt always has.
Did you steal the treasures in your suitcase?
Who would benefit from access to the ruins?
Where are you going now?
Wait here.
Can I help?
I didn't expect things to happen so quickly. I guess the ruins aren't ours anymore. I'm glad the University will be studying them. I've always wondered about everything I saw in there.
Oh my gods, what happened?
We've got a thief lurking around.
I'll ask the questions here.
Oh... um... Are you sure it's necessary?
Absolutely.
You're looking mighty suspicious.
Okay... It's just on the ground.
Poor Aunty H... I wish she could see inside. She must have been really desperate to end up taking that book.
Are you the impromptu detective? Sorry it took me so long to get here. The innkeeper just filled me in on the situation.
Historian.
Innkeeper.
Student.
Radmila.
None of these people.
It seems like you've been doing good work here. Do you have a prime suspect?
Yes.
Not yet.
Helena.
Belinda.
Vadim.
Musicians.
None of these people.
Wait, let me think.
Really? That's very interesting. Let me have a look around and see if I can confirm your suspicions.
Well, you might make a fine detective one day— but not today.
You've got some more training to do, rookie.
Turns out it was actually Helena!
Looks like you're well on your way to becoming a full-fledged detective!
Certainly nice to have someone else carry out the interrogations.
Well, I'd be remiss if I didn't reward you for your work. Please accept this these glowstones I'm authorized to award good samaritans like yourself.
And I believe my work here is just about done!
Sad story, this is. Looks like Helena was hoping to sell off the land to the tourist industry— worth quite a lot of money.
Unfortunately for her, we've now got solid evidence that the ruins are filled with ancient relics. No chance of selling the property now. Ownership will most likely default to University.
Says she was trying to take a final look inside the ruins; that's why she needed the book. Must have been having second thoughts about selling the land.
Hello, Detective. My name's Belinda and I'm an open book I tell you! Any questions you have, I'm completely ready to answer. I don't have a single thing to hide!
The only suspicious thing I've seen is that historian. He's been running into our rooms, snatching up our things and dragging them around for others to inspect. It makes you wonder if he isn't trying to cover something up!
Why are you visiting?
-Magical powers?
My sister and I are taking a relaxing vacation. She hardly gets out of the house anymore, and I thought the fresh air out here would do her some good!
-Magical Powers?
What is her illness?
Anything strange happening?
Well, who knows really. We can't get in there to find out... But it's nice to dream. My sister loved hiking and traveling more than anything... Now she can only travel in her books.
Ask me anything you want, Detective!
I've just been sitting here quietly! Not a toe out of line on my part!
-Magical powers?
Have you noticed anything odd?
Not yet.
Oh, all kinds of strange things— but nothing related to this case!
I have. It seems that Ms. Helena is unwell! I've seen her looking very sick and tired as she moves about the inn. You'll see! Something's wrong with her.
-Magical powers?
Have you noticed anything odd?
Thanks.
Knees, thighs, toes, a continual upset stomach. Old age you might say.
Well, I thought Helena was acting strange. Guess you can always count on me, Detective. Who knows, maybe they will find some cures in the ruins. That would really be something.
Ah, so you finally made it, Detective! I was hoping you'd be delayed so we could have more excitement!
You're enjoying this?
-Ruins painting?
-Number code in book?
Yes, my husband and I used to go on dates at the ruins. The night sky and the fresh air, all surrounded by the history of the island. It's a very romantic spot you know.
No. I'm trapped in this bed. There's nothing at all to see here. But, I did hear a young girl pacing outside my door before the theft. She seemed very flustered.
I called her inside and we talked a bit about books. She was a student at the University. Suddenly she said she needed to go. What a sad girl.
Thanks.
Well, of course. My sister, Belinda, dragged me here all of the sudden for a quiet retreat. But I don't much like quietly retreating— I'd rather have the suspense of a conniving thief in our midst!
You skipped to the last page?! Don't spoil the ending for me!
The businessman, Vadim, gave me that book last night. I haven't finished it yet and I don't know anything about those numbers! They'd better not be important to the story!
Hello again, Detective. What's the dirt?
I can't say I'm pleased the case was cracked— I was quite enjoying the excitement. Back to dreary days in bed, I suppose.
-Number code in book?
See anything strange?
-Ruins painting?
That's all for now.
You've finally arrived! Would you like some tea, or maybe some pie?
...
Don't be shy now.
Who are you?
Yes, please.
With me lies the gift which everyone seeks.So far you've all been liars and sneaks.Sought out by foe and drunkards unfit,Not one of you has held nearly enough wit.
They all bumble in, dreaming of crimes.Every day they show up— it's a waste of my time! But the strings of light you folded and bentProve you've got brains... to some extent.
It seems you may just be clever enough.Although, I'd bet your brain is packed full of fluff.But listen up painter, for this is your task,Prepare your brushes and hear what I ask.
Ah! Here is something unexpected!I'd thought my riddle went neglected!The glowing sun confines me to mud,But this! It puts life in my blood!
Well, you gave the sky vision, it's true.But something's missing, one more thing to do.Wait for the moment when night visits day,Use those few seconds and you'll find the way.
An eclipse you've found, the darkness of day,But another piece you've lost on your waySearch the landscape and find me an eye,Give the sky vision, then you'll have your prize.
The clever painter, back again!Use the tincture well, my friend!

My name is known to all as Mudwillow.My passion is sight, and all that it shows.Weaver of light and doctor of eyes,I hold the gift reserved for the wise.
Why do you need someone wise?
Why do you live underground?
Itself in a constant state of falling, To you, it seems that it's always stalling.A stony sight when the star hides away,A watchful eye at the peak of midday.
When day turns dark but a moment in time, When a star goes black though everything's fine.The largest of eyes that stares back at you,A sight that aligns, that's the moment I choose.
The sun illuminates all I must learn,But a heat so strong leaves me to burn.A dismal greeting from the glorious sphere,So I remain secluded down here.
It's yours— most valuable thing I own!A trade for the clever wit you've shown.This brew's the only one of its kindAnd its powers need a solid mind.
Drink slow, once a day— your eyes will grow clear.Just a sip and treasures will glow when you're near.
I devote myself to studying eyes,And I've seen plenty brimming with lies,But perhaps you're different, in the end.Best wishes to you, my clever friend.
Sip up, see well, but exercise care—This sight drains your spirit, 'til none can you spare.


[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Are you the authorities? Do you paint the crime scene to help find clues?
Just an artist who believes in justice.
I'm looking into the case.
Okay! Well, my boyfriend and I really need to get off this lake. We're supposed to be playing a show in Nava tonight, but the innkeeper won't let anyone leave.
I'm sorry to hear that.
This is a serious matter.
What do you know about the theft?
Did you see anything suspicious?
-Tiffmoor Ruins?
That's all for now.
A book was stolen. It must contain the meaning of life, because I can't see any other reason it would be such a big deal!
We got here yesterday afternoon. We ate dinner, played some music, and went to bed. I heard some scuffling in the middle of the night, but I just thought it was rats. They're everywhere.
Just hurry up and find the criminal, okay?
It's so frustrating! We've never played anywhere important and the one chance we get— this has to happen!
Finally we can leave! Maybe we'll get to play in Nava after all.
It's such a bad situation. The indigenous people just want the land to stay sacred. All they ask is that no one goes in the ruins. But the University is constantly sending people over to investigate. They want to 'extract the artifacts.'
And there's this new law that says if the scientists can't find any ancient relics in the ruins then the ruins aren't 'historically important' and so don't get any protections. So, that means the sacred space could be dishonored by random hikers!
I mean of course the scientists won't find any relics— they aren't even allowed inside! So, the land is really in peril right now. It's just a mess.
Ah good, you've finally arrived to sort this out! Check through my suitcase and I'll be on my way, Detective!
No one's leaving until we find the thief.
Eager to make your escape?
Good gods. This is truly obscene. The historian likely dropped the book in the lake himself— you've seen how his hands shake! And now he’s trying to frame one of us!
Yes, actually! We've been trapped here all day waiting for you. I had a meeting scheduled in Lyndow— I may have lost a client over this!
That historian! He's a madman! He tore through our rooms this morning screaming about his wretched book.
Numbers? I'm afraid I don't know anything about that. I picked up that book in a small market last week. Wasn't my cup of tea, so I gave it to Radmila.
Have you any progress?
It's too bad the ruins are going to be swept up by the University. Wasted opportunity. The entire island would have profited from the tourism! All in the name of 'science,' I suppose.
A wasted opportunity at the moment. Who doesn't love the idea of visiting a tomb thousands of years old? Who wouldn't love the sense of discovery and heritage?
Who wouldn't pay dozens and dozens of glowstones for that kind of experience? I'm going to bring that dream to life, I promise you that.
Notice anything strange?
-Numbers in romance novel?
-Tell me about the Tiffmoor Ruins.
That's all for now.
Nice chatting!
That's okay. I understand.
Strangest thing... After talking to you before, I've found a bunch more apple cores... It isn't you eating them, is it?
Not me!
Must be your daughter.
-I found who's eating your apples... Some kids.
*Chuckles* Didn't really think so. Cili never liked apples much, but tastes change! Must've discovered how much she loves 'em and can't get enough...
Cili never liked them before... Must've had a change of tastes and now she's making up for lost time.
Just alone in the woods? Are they okay? Take me to them right away— they must be starving!
Follow me!
Something I can do for you?
-I found who's eating your apples... Some kids.
Just saying hello.
Oh, okay... hello.
-
Ah, you're back. Can you help me with my vermin problem now?
Sure can! What can I do?
Sorry, not right now.
Well, better get back to it. I was just taking inventory of our stores— seems we're missing quite a few veggies. And I've been finding apple cores everywhere.
Never heard of an animal that just leaves behind the core... And Cili hates apples, so it's not her. You let me know if you see anyone sneaking around with a bushel of fruit, alright?
Hello! Name's Toma. Nice to meet you and welcome to the farm.
Hoping my daughter— Cili's her name— hoping she'll take it up after me! After attending University, of course. No way she'd miss out on the adventures offered by the Academy.
It would be a nice legacy.
She should choose her own path.
I just love this old farm. My dad built it from the ground up! I'd hate to be the last one to make use of it.
We're the largest distributor of Bloomsacs in the entire world. My old man was always proud of that, rest his soul.
No question there! She's got a handful of dreams and no one's gonna ever take them from her.
-
Good thing you found those kids... Just living off apples for who knows how long...
Can they stay with you?
Where do you think their parents are?
Hard to say, but I don't think they're from Eastshade. These two are exhausted and famished. Might be able to find out more after they've had a rest.
Can they stay with you?
What next?
Not a problem. These two can stay until we talk with the sheriff and find their parents.
Where do you think their parents are?
What next?
We're going to need to whip up a meal more substantial than apples!
Thanks for looking into the apple situation... I never would've expected this! I don't have much, but please take this small payment as a token of thanks from all of us.
Good to see you again.
Any word on the children's parents?
I have to go.
Thanks again for your help.
No word. Sounds like there was a boating accident... I hate to think the worst, but the waves by the bluffs... Well, we're just staying positive!
Sheriff in Nava said the kids can stay here 'til we figure out who their parents are and where they ended up. I think they're settling in okay.
Good news! Father of those kids survived and made it back here! What a sight to see them all together again. Lucky thing you found him!
Never had something like that happen before. And couldn't have asked for a better outcome!
Now... back to Bloomsacs!
The children are staying here a bit longer while their father secures passage home for them.
...
What are you doing out here?
Are you alright?
...
What are you doing here?
Are you alright?
...
Is this food yours?
You've got a lot of apples here...
Um...
Did you steal the food from Toma's farm?
Please don't tell...
... Nothing.
Hm, okay. Goodbye.
-
Um... yes...
Hm, okay. Goodbye.
Toma and Cili are looking after us until our dad comes back. They're so nice... We're sorry for stealing their food before...
When did you last see your parents?
Why doesn't your brother talk?
I have to go.
We woke up on a beach, but dad wasn't with us.
Why doesn't your brother talk?
Be safe.
He's shy. He doesn't talk to anyone except me and Dad.
When did you last see your parents?
Be safe.
Thanks for bringing us here.
I don't know. We were fishing in the ocean with my dad, but the waves broke our boat and we got lost in the water.
Dad made it back! He's finding a new boat for us so we can go home!
That's wonderful!
Travel safely!
What? A box? Why are you bothering me with something like that?
Do you know what 'Medve' means?
I heard it might belong to you.
I do, actually.
Take a look.
Well... I can't say I ever expected to see this.
Is it yours?
What is it?
Lady Samira wanted it.
I, uh, don't have it anymore. Lady Samira...
Lady Samira tried to steal the jewels inside!
Medve was my great-great-grandfather. His mother brought him to Eastshade with nothing to her name except some seeds from their homeland. According to the story she kept them there...  in that very box. She wanted to plant them here, so Eastshade would share a piece of home.
Wait, you found the box and then gave it to Lady Samira? I guess that really makes sense.
What's so important about the box?
She had a key...
Would've been nice to see that old piece of family history. Samira probably already threw it in the ocean. I could've planted the seeds. In a pot. They'd be invasive...
I'm so sorry.
The seeds just might turn up.
Ah, I guess they're better off lost anyway.
Oh! Of course she did! She has the key to the entire island— probably the entire world! I'm honestly shocked it took her this long to find it.
I don't doubt that... She's used to big hauls. Glowstone goblets. Golden chairs.
Well... back to work.
I somehow doubt that.
Okay, fine. Let's see it.
The jewels? Is that what we're calling them?
That doesn't surprise me at all! I'm shocked it took her this long to dig it up.
She thought there were jewels.
She wasn't pleased...
I can't believe you actually recovered it. Makes sense it would be Lady Samira's scheme. But I can't figure out what she'd want to do with seeds... doesn't really seem to fit her style.
I think I'll try planting them. In pots of course. They're an invasive species... Thanks for rescuing this for me. It's nice to have a piece of my family's history.
Glad to help!
Hah! Well, that's about the best thing I've ever heard. Pretty impressive you managed not to fall for her tricks.
The seeds must still be in here. I've got another key somewhere. Unless Samira got to that one too somehow.
Trade here, trade there. So many folk a'scurrying about.
Are you a trader?
You're partial to the hustle and bustle of cities?
A trader? I suppose you could say that. A trader of sorts...
Just take a look at all those shiny things comin' in the markets! Sad day when my legs stopped working quite so well. Haven't made it down to the lower level in some time.
That's too bad.
At least you have a nice view!
Say, I heard from some other folks that you're one of the most helpful people in Eastshade. Do you have time to help an old woman?
Okay.
Not right now.
You have a spare minute to help an old woman?
Sure.
Later.
Excellent, excellent! You and I, young friend, I can tell we're gonna make a fine pair!
What do you need me to do?
I don't know about that!
Partners in crime!
I'm embarrassed to admit— I left a precious box up north, in the caverns. You know the Howling Caverns on the Tiffmoor Bluffs? I must've left it there...
You left a box? In the caverns?
I thought your legs didn't work well?
I think I know how to get there.
I found a box in those caverns!
It was years ago, mind you, that I left it behind. Longer actually. I was still a young girl. Spent time playing all o'er Eastshade! That box was one of my favorite possessions, passed down from my mother.
Why didn't you look for it before?
What kind of box is this?
I must have spent hours searching those caverns. Don't know if the sea swept it out or if someone came and took it... S'pose I became a touch more sentimental in my later years. I just want to see it again.
How will I know I've found it?
It's been so long since I've seen it— I don't remember all the details... But there can't be many boxes in that cavern!
Not to worry. I have confidence you'll find it, child! Away with you!
I'll do what I can!
Okay, okay. I'm going.
Already bid farewell to your scruples, eh?
I'm rooting for you, child! Living vicariously through you in your quest to retrieve my lost box!
You found my box? Oh, such intricate, careful detail in the carving... Can't find craftsmanship like that nowadays! It's... just how I remembered it! Give it here, child!
Why is 'Medve' carved into it?
It looks fancier than you described.
[Give box]
But the box belonged to Viktar's family!
I already gave it to the innkeeper.
It's a... an old family name, you know? Now, give it here.
Are you sure it's your family?
How did your family get this box?
I told you— memory is fragile! But I remember it perfectly now. No question— that's my box!
Why is 'Medve' carved into it?
[Give box]
Sheesh, so many accusations! Are we partners or not?
I guess...
Something doesn't add up.
I've waited long enough for this moment. Look, I've got the key! Now, give me the box!
You have the key?
What's so special about this box?
Of course! I told you the box is mine.
I think I'll hang on to it.
[Give box]
You will not let up! Fine, then. Look, my mother left jewels in this box— some of my inheritance.
There's no way you lost a box of jewels!
Why not toss a few jewels my way?
Why, you're practically me when I was your age! We truly are partners in crime. Sure, child— if you ever hand over the box, I'll give you some of the goods.
I don't trust you. Think I'll keep it for myself.
[Give box]
Why, you! I'll give you half the jewels inside! *scream of frustration* Last chance! You'll never get it open without this key.
I'll see myself out.
[Give box]
Children can be careless. Stranger things have happened.
This doesn't sound right.
[Give box]
If my legs were working proper, I'd knock that box outta your smug hands.
This is what it all comes down to? My final job— and nothing?! I... I gave up so much to hunt down this worthless thing. Jewels! There should have been jewels! *You* stole them! Give 'em here, child. Quick, now.
I didn't take anything!
How would I unlock it without a key?
You— you! *sputtering* You had to... How else...?
This clearly isn't your box. You're the thief!
How do you know it had jewels at all?
Oh, if you're not gonna be any use then just get outta here!
Been a long time since I had a partner of any sort. Oh, I feel ten years younger!
Back to steal more from me? Give it a rest and just leave an old woman be.
Come back to taunt me? Or are you gonna give me the box after all?
I have other plans for that box.
You know that box doesn't have much inside...
*sputters* You— you stole the jewels, didn't you? You thieving shrew!
Sure... That's what happened.
There were only seeds inside! Ask Viktar!
Jewels?!
Pah! I don't speak to liars.
What in the Great Shade would you want with a pile of seeds anyhow? Don't matter much— seeing as I don't got 'em anymore.
What?! Where are they?
Did you consume them with your fiery breath?
You get worked up about the strangest things there, traveler.
What in the Great Shade would you want with a pile of seeds anyhow? Don't matter much— seeing as I don't got 'em anymore.
Anyhow, I dumped 'em... somewhere. The box too. Shade's sake! I barely remember what I ate just before the eclipse! And believe me, I care a great deal more about the state of my stomach than some useless seeds.
Leave me be, child!
No matter, child! No matter!
[Give Samira the box]
I think I'll hang onto the box.
It's not like I have the box anyway.
Yeah... Well, I dumped it— somewhere. So what if some park ranger wants to show it off at the inn anyhow?
There's nothing in here!
What is *this?!* Seeds?!
What's that? You want that box back?
It has some decoration, you know. Not too much. It's a rather simple wooden box... I think...
You don't know what it looks like?
I'll get for you as soon as I can!
What kind of thief are you? It was just a pile of seeds in there! You hit your head or something?
I need those seeds.
Oh, yes! The more bustle the better! The sounds of a full market.... brings me back...
Not that I should be telling you any of this! But... we're worried about her. I think it would be great for her to see a new face. We're all starting to get under each other's skin...
I'll do my best.
I spoke with her earlier.
I'm a historian for the University. We found records of a chamber inside this glacier. We're not really sure what to expect when we get inside though. We found some carvings on the walls. I couldn't decipher them— but this seems to be a place of great importance.
Are you getting close?
How long have you been out here?
Well, we were pretty close. Just about to break through to the cavern, I'd bet. But there was a cave in this morning. All our work's been buried in the ice.
How long have you been out here?
Can I help?
About four months now? Something like that. It's hard to keep track of time when, uh... Well, anyway— doesn't matter. The job will be done when it's done.
Are you getting close to the cavern?
Can I help?
We could use all the help we can get. But that's not up to me. You'd better talk to Commander Liliana. I need to get back to it.
Had a chat with Commander Liliana, did you? She manage to recruit you yet?
Kind of. I'm going to stay the night.
I heard about the hauntings.
Maybe you can take my spot and I'll head back to Nava, har-har!
I heard about the hauntings.
You don't look like a researcher to me. What are you doing out here?
Exploring.
Painting.
I don't know...
I'm sure you helped. Well, I need to get back to it. A curse waits for no one!
She walked up to the northern shore. It's a nice place to take a break. Seems less... cursed, I guess.
Hmm. It's not too safe out here for someone like yourself. You don't seem to have the right equipment for a night on the ice. But to each their own, I suppose.
Anyway, it's sort of nice to see someone other than the crew. We've been out here a while... I'm Fedir.
Ah, right. There are records of an ancient spirituality in the area. Seems to me that we might have struck a curse by opening this tunnel.
You mean magic?
That seems unlikely.
Shouldn't you leave the tunnel closed then?
No. A curse set in place by ancient and sacred rituals. We can't be sure how these things work, but it seems they do, based on the terrible experiences we've had.
What kinds of things?
How would you reverse it?
I would have said so too a few months ago... but with everything happening now? It makes more sense than anything else.
What kinds of things?
How would you reverse it?
If it is a curse— then we've already been cursed! Best thing to do now is find a way to break that curse!
What makes you think it's a curse?
How would you reverse the curse?
Well, we've seen these... figures... surrounding our camp. They're always whispering. Meira— she's got it the worst. She hears something talking to her all the time. Almost like a demon by the way she describes it.
How would you reverse the curse?
I don't see how you believe this.
It all sounds creepy.
The texts on this area of the world are sparse. There is some information that hints heavily at curses, but I haven't found much on how to reverse them.
What makes you think it's a curse?
I don't see how you believe this.
It all sounds creepy.
The University is full of academics— not a soul there who believes in curses. But do you know what? Not many of them believed we would find anything here— and we did! It's lost now... in the collapse... But we did find it.
I'll tell you, we're all very much looking forward to getting away from here. As exciting as the cavern find may be— I just don't get a good feeling from it.
Meira's been having an especially hard time with everything. She specializes in glaciology and... well... Liliana is worried that Meira should have been able to foresee the cave-in... They had a falling-out this morning.
I heard voices— tens of voices all whispering so loudly my brain felt like it would burst! I came out here to check on you all and saw Meira running off to the tunnel. She got through the rubble and now she's in there!
Why would she do that?
We need to help her!
She yelled something about "fighting to the death" and just ran right in!
She yelled something about "finding out what they want" and just ran right in!
She yelled something about "they won't be ignored" and just ran right in!
It's not safe in there! I don't know why we're still standing here— I'm going in after her!
I suppose it makes sense that all the visions were from cave spores! Can't believe I didn't see it sooner.
It's a trove of knowledge in there. This study will answer a lot of questions about early Eastshadians.
Uhm, anyway. It'll be nice to do some actual research for once. We'll have to get some coverings for our faces to ensure there are no more curse-like experiences!
I guess... the spores were what made me think it was a curse. Yes, that must be it. Har-har, imagine... a real life curse, har-har!
Hello! Are you from the University? Are you here to relieve us?
I'm just a traveler.
You work with the University?
Months of progress— lost in a single night. We're at our wits' end, that's for sure.
I want to help.
I'd like to see the tunnel.
I'm glad I'm not you.
We can arrange that, but let's plan for tomorrow. It's been a long day already and the crew will be wrapping up soon. We have a supply tent I'm sure you could squeeze into.
I have my own tent.
Okay, that will be fine.
Actually— I don't like the sound of this.
Does it have the extra padding and lining to survive a night out here? I'd rather you use ours than turn into an icicle!
I'll sort the tent out for you. In the meantime, why don't you get to know the crew a little better? They'd appreciate seeing a new face.
Ah, these glaciers. So full of mystery... Look, I'm not a superstitious person. I didn't get to where I am now by believing in spirits and ghosts and the like.
But the further we dig— well, things are getting eerie. Visions and sounds we can't explain— this is the reason I wrote to call off the mission. Surely there's a sensible explanation, but my crew has other notions. It's driving a wedge between us, undoubtedly.
That sounds awful.
What do you think it is?
You never know with ghosts.
It's kind of ridiculous. Obviously there's no such thing as being haunted.
We've been out here, in complete isolation, for months. It's freezing, we work all day, and the wind howls constantly at night. I think it's easy to feel like we're being... haunted.
Oh, sorry... It's a long way north for the typical tourist.
We've been... struggling. But, I digress! I'm Commander Liliana. Nice to meet you! It's great to see a new face.
What's causing the struggle?
It looks like a big project.
Hello again. Enjoying the fresh northern air?
I want to help.
I'd like to see the tunnel.
Goodbye.
I'll just get the tent ready. Shouldn't be long.
I think I managed to make enough space for you in the tent. Might be a little cozy though. It's yours to use when you're ready.
Thanks.
But progress has been slow. We're kind of expecting the University to send someone calling the whole mission off.
Why would they call it off?
What a shame.
Ah. You too, I see. Well, I won't try to convince you. If there was anywhere a demon would live, I think it would be here.
We're a research team for the University of Nava. Excavating these glaciers in search of an ancient cavern. Records show this place might have been extremely important for early inhabitants.
Me either honestly! I don't blame you for trying to keep far away.
And now, just as we reached the cavern entrance, the tunnel collapsed again, blocking us out. No way to tell how bad the damage is. To top it off, I made the stupid call to leave the artifact bins in there last night. We might have lost everything.
I'd say it's a massive undertaking. Just a team of three and the project only seems to get bigger each day.
Don't go spreading that kind of talk to my crew. We need all the morale we can get.
Can I see the tunnel?
Sorry. See you later.
In all honesty it would be a huge relief at this point...
They both just ran into the tunnel! I can't believe this is happening...
Okay... Fedir has lost his mind too...
We should go with him.
Let's just wait.
Fedir isn't back yet. I think we need to go in there and see what's happened to them both.
Okay, let's go in the scary cave.
They'll be back soon. Just wait.
You should go first.
Do I get a say?
What? No, you should!
Hmm... okay.
No, we're going in. Let's move. That's an order!
Keep going, I'm right behind you.
I'm not sure how you knew what to do, but I'm glad you were able to air out the spores. Thanks to you we survived and even managed to recover the artifacts!
The voices guided me through.
I'm just glad we survived.
(Receive Reward)
Thanks for running in here after the crew. The existence of this cavern is amazing enough— but the discovery of the spores is going to help solve some big historical questions!
What will you do now?
Good luck.
Hey! Are you alright? It seems we've all had a bout of hallucinations. I think you might have managed to save us somehow.
What did I do?
Where am I?
I took the light.
You must have stacked them up and...  That hole— of course! It's a vent. When you pulled out those ice chunks all the spores dissipated!
Spores?
Did you also see the three towers?
Look at all this icy fungus— Fedir just identified it as a highly potent hallucinogen. We must have been breathing in the spores while we were digging.
Take it easy. You're back in reality now. We're inside the ice cavern my crew has been digging for. This place is an incredible discovery!
You said I saved everyone?
We have lots to do now! I'm going to write back to the University immediately to inform them of our findings.
Good luck!
A bit of a strange experience! It reminded me of my time experimenting with the Roots. Although much more creepy... Anyway it'll be nice to investigate further!
And that lead to some powerful experiences! Mine was about four golden owls leading me down a path to— Well, it doesn't matter.
I never want to go through that again.
These are pretty neat mushrooms.
How's your crew?
They're fascinating! Brought me right back to my days of experimenting with the Roots. Although... not as pleasant really. Fedir is over the moon about this.
Better than they've been in a long, long time. You don't know how relieved I am that it wasn't a curse or a wild flock of demons. Meira and Fedir nearly had me convinced.
Right... Of course they did.
I see... It's okay, we're all still recovering.
When I came to I found you here— next to all our artifact bins. I thought maybe you were trying to build some kind of shield, but...
To think we've been making our situation worse with every step forward...
Well, that shows you what state I'm in. I didn't expect to see a tourist all the way out here.
Who told you that? Was it Fedir? He's always butting into things!
I'd like to help.
I believe you.
I don't judge you.
It sounds crazy to me.
Tell me. What would you suggest I do about the... thing... that won't stop talking to me?
Fight it with everything you've got!
Find out what it wants.
Just ignore it.
Okay, I know you're just trying to be helpful, but I actually don't feel like talking about it anymore. It's a lot to deal with.
I have another question.
Uh... hello? Are you real?
I think so.
I'm a traveler.
No, I'm just in your mind.
What did you want to ask about?
The dig.
Fedir.
Liliana.
We're trying to access an important cavern inside the ice. But someone... or something... doesn't want us to find it.
What do you mean?
Strange things have been happening ever since we got here. This place is just creepy.
Can I ask something else?
I'll leave you be.
Fedir's a historian and an archaeologist. He was one of my professors at university. He thinks there's a curse bringing on the demons. He has all kinds of ideas to break the curse— but I think they're just making things worse.
The dig.
Liliana.
I'll leave you be.
Liliana is our Commander. She says she doesn't hear any of the voices or see any of the creepy things we do, but I think she's lying. She's just trying to protect us.
The dig.
Fedir.
I'll leave you be.
Bye.
Oh dear... Well, that shows you what state I'm in. I didn't expect to see a tourist all the way out here.
I heard about the hauntings.
You're seeing demons?
Uh... hello? Are you real?
I think so.
I'm a traveler.
No, I'm just in your mind.
But... I'm on my break now. You should talk to Commander Liliana.
Okay, thanks.
Yeah, this is one creepy place. Best day of my life when I set foot on this big old block of ice! But now I really wish we'd never come at all.
Because of the demons?
My grandmother told me about spirits that haunt people who make bad choices. I always thought she was just getting me to behave, but what if it's real?
So what'd you do wrong?
They're just stories— no need to fear.
I know it doesn't sound real, okay? But did Fedir tell you about his curse? Obviously it's not just me— there is something here.
What, in my whole life? A lot of things! But since we've been here? Nothing... I stole Liliana's dessert rations...
You can say that, but I dare you to stay here for a night. There's definitely something out here and I know you'd feel it too.
I'm going to.
Oh... really? Well, good luck with that. If I was you I'd head back home right now.
I'd like to see the tunnel.
We'll see if the demon gets me.
Very funny.
Very funny.
Yeah, I guess we will.
Oh, hello.
I heard about the hauntings.
You're seeing demons?
Mushrooms! I've always hated mushrooms! I really thought that demon would be the end of me...
You're safe now.
Nothing to worry about!
The advice you gave me about fighting the demon was... Well, that's why I came in here last night. There's no way I could have fought stupid spore-demons— but I'm glad we figured it all out.
I'm glad you're feeling better!
I ran in here last night to find out what the demon wanted. I guess that wasn't really the best choice looking back, but I'm glad everything got sorted out. Thanks for the advice.
I'm glad you're feeling better!
You told me to ignore the demon, and I tried, but it didn't work that well... I guess because the spores were flying around everywhere. But that's why I ran in here last night. I was ready to do anything to get the voices.
Well, now the real research can begin!
I'm so glad we figured it out. Maybe things can go back to normal now.
I'm glad you're feeling better!
*laughs* How many glowstones you got on you, anyhow?! Naw, it'd take you too long to get what we need.
Have you met Anika? I'm willing to bet she'd help out. Kaelen's always saying Anika has a generous soul... *whispers* Even if she isn't all there upstairs. She lives in the southwest of the Great Shade.
Why her? Why not ask Fynn?
Okay... how much do you need?
Somehow, people around here came to knowing she has more glowstones than many the rest of us. I'm guessin' she doesn't spend much... too preoccupied with other things...
Just— see if you can borrow 600 glowstones.
600! That's steep!
Aren't you afraid I'll take it for myself?
Why don't you do it?
I'm not proud of it, you know. We've been down on our luck a while.
Word may have gotten around we had to borrow a bit. At this point, we're embarrassed to show our faces around Eastshade.
Er, anyhow, if she needs convincing, just tell her it's anyone besides us asking. Go, give it your best.
*sigh* We've got nothing to lose, I suppose. Just need to find a way off this isle if we can't get out of this hole we're in soon.
You spoke to Anika already? What did she say?
Uh, I'll go check on that.
You used an endangered plant?
You overcharged people?
Well, what do you mean endangered pla— Oh... Is *that* why people stopped coming around? But why would anyone believe I used something that's protected? I mean, I like plants as much as the next Shadefolk. I'd never touch a protected plant, I swear!
Anika mentioned the potion Hydrathistle.
Anyway, that was years ago! It wasn't overcharging *exactly.* I was young, you know? It was long before I was even with Kaelen! I might not always have been a model citizen, but Kaelen right straightened me out!
What about your crop-stealing habit?
If you say so.
*sighs* You know, someone once told me a story about a woman who couldn't feed her family. She took to stealing scraps, gets caught, and goes to jail. Tell me, how's that right? Can't feed her family... What's she supposed to do?!
But this can't be about overcharging... We had plenty of customers long after those days. Anika isn't holding my past against me, is she? We charge a fair price! Or we would, if anyone ever set foot in here!
It's more about the endangered plants.
How did you know— You told her it was me asking?!
I didn't have a choice.
She figured it out.
What? My Hydrathistle? Huh, now that I think about it, I guess I could see where people got that idea, but— criminy. Why didn't anyone just ask me about it? *This* is why we've been broke all these years?!
You didn't use the endangered plant?
Look on the bright side...
The only good thing here is also the worst thing, 'cause I didn't use an endangered plant on that one... Ugh, wait. Before you go—
Here's my Hydrathistle. Find someone to test it. Like a scientist! Help me prove I didn't use any protected plants. Nava will certainly have someone who can figure that out. Check the offices on the third floor of the common quarter.
[Take potion]
Maybe another time.
Look, you haven't seen the best of us, but we've got a lot to offer if we just had a chance. Can you help us?
Okay, how?
I don't know...
Please hurry. We can't survive much longer without any customers.
For the love of the Shade, I swear I only use legal ingredients in my potions! I'm begging you— help me clear my name.
All right, I'll help you.
Maybe later.
Whatever you do, get that Hydrathistle over to the University for testing. We need business again!
Please tell me you had that Hydrathistle tested. Kaelen's been talking about packing her bags. Heck, she may have packed a few already. She's been so upset... Don't know where she even thinks we'd go with no glowstones to our names!
-Zahra tested it. Here's the report.
For the Great Shade! Next time, tell a man all's well. Don't just hand over a report! You made my heart right jump out of my skin!
Criminy!
I right can't believe it! Business is booming already! We're truly grateful for all of your help. Here, take these glowstones. We made a big sale just 'fore the morning eclipse!
I couldn't possibly take them.
Thanks!
No customers yet. But with any hope, that'll change soon!
We appreciate your consideration, but honestly, it's no trouble at all.
We're in the middle of our reopening, and criminy, what a turnout!
So you'll repay Fynn?
That's great!
Of course, of course! Him and a few others.
Couldn't have done all this without you! For Great Shade's sake, we gotta unpack some of what Kaelen already packed up. My poor wife. I can't believe what I put her through. I hope I can make up for it all. Course, you're welcome to my wares anytime— at a discount!
[Browse Goods]
See you.
The shop is bustling! And we're getting along just fine now. To think, it was just folks talking that drove business away all that time...
[Browse Goods]
See you.
All you need to do is get us some glowstones. And, er, you won't tell about the little vermin incident, right?
I can lend you some glowstones.
What do I need to do?
But thank you, thank you! I have to tell Kaelen the good news! And the paper! Great gads, the paper! I need to let all of Eastshade know I'm someone to be trusted! Thank you!
Bright side? Look on the bright side?!! Ugh!
No, course not. Far too risky to use those protected bits of foliage. That's a game I don't mess around with.
Broke a pot this morning, and you know what? I don't even mind! Today's just my day!
-I could use your help.
Of course! It wouldn't be a bird identification issue, by any chance?
No... Can you lend someone glowstones?
Ah, darn. I love a good bird id. Well, tell me what you're needing glowstones for.
I'm helping a friend...
You need me to give you glowstones, so you can help a friend. And tell me... what's the name of this 'friend?'
I prefer not to say.
They asked me not to tell.
I see, I see. Unfortunately, I cannot help you help your friend.
Why?
Financial troubles, north of here... No doubt you've been spending time with Kai and Kaelen!
What if I am?
I could be talking about anyone!
Right, of course... And where on the island might I find this person?
Near Blushwood Forest.
A little north. Somewhere. Not sure!
Kaelen's a sweetheart, but that Kai— a weasel if ever I heard of one!
What did he do?
True, but you're not!
But you're new to Eastshade! Lots of people didn't like back when Kai was overcharging for potions.
Not that it bothered me so much, but he sure upset a lot of other people!
Why's he a weasel then?
Once a snake, always a snake. I can't help you.
And whatever you do, don't pick the Black Thistle!
And Kai simply waltzed into the Great Shade and snatched Black Thistle— an endangered plant, I'll have you know— and stuck it into some potion to sell. Kai is no friend to owls. Who would do something so terrible?
Maybe it was a misunderstanding.
Can't you forgive him?
He steals from owls, of course! The most magnificent of all creatures! You see, owls love rubbing their beaks against the soft part of the Black Thistle. It comforts them.
It was no misunderstanding! If anyone ought to know better, it'd be Kai. He deals with plants all day after all!
Seems you're in luck! No trace of any endangered or illegal substances in here.
Here's the full report! Come back if you have anything else for me to test!
-Could you test Kai's potion for me?
Never mind.
You want me to check for trace elements of endangered plants? I enjoy running tests! Just give me the potion and a few minutes.
Greetings, traveler. Would you like your fortune read?
Sounds good!
Can you really read fortunes?
Look around. You are a guest in my place of solitude and calm. Here, I am uninhibited by the clutter and chatter of all those people in the city. Here, my mind is free... my soul balanced.
I guess I have time for a fortune.
I'm not interested in fortunes.
Beautiful, beautiful. Before we begin, I have one request.
I'm not going to drink any strange potions...
Okay, what do you need?
Wouldn't dream of it, dear. The only concoction I drink is a stiff brew of mead when the chill hits me in the dead of winter.
You never rode the waves of the Dream Teas?
You only need mead in winter?!
You keep an intriguing array of acquaintances, don't you? You make me laugh, traveler.
What do you need to give a fortune?
Maybe I'll come back for a fortune.
What can I say? Guess I developed tough bones, staying up here all this time!
What do you need to give a fortune?
Maybe I'll come back for a fortune.
Is the intrigue too great? Looking for a fortune from the Greatest Fortune Teller in Eastshade?
Sure.
Maybe later.
To read a proper fortune, I must have a sprig of Black Thistle. Will you bring one to me?
Okay.
-I already have some!
But no one's supposed to pick it!
You have the Black Thistle? Splendid, splendid! Shall we commence with your fortune? My fee is 3 glowstones.
Yes.
I don't have enough glowstones.
Maybe later.
Just bring up a sprig of the Black Thistle, and I can tell you your fortune.
I'll come right back with it!
Of course you can pick it, child! Who's to say I didn't place those signs there so I'd never run out of thistle?
Did you place the signs there?
Okay... I'll be back soon with the thistle.
Not per se... But I peered into the future— one of the perks of being a seer, you know— and I can say with certainty that no one else will notice if a single sprig is taken.
Okay...
I'm sorry. I won't pick it for you.
I have some thistle for you.
But you have such a lovely fortune, child! Are you certain you want to give that up?
I changed my mind— I'll pick it for you.
Yes. I can't play a part in damaging plants.
Splendid! See you soon!
Not many around Eastshade are as principled as you! What an impressive person you are!
Surely an impressive person deserves a reward!
Thank you?
Glad you think so!
Oh, you silly traveler. I am but a keeper of these grounds, helping to take care of the tree and its undergrowth. I only pretend to be a fortune teller to seek out the wrongdoers!
Seriously?
But you were egging me on!
Glad I didn't pick the thistle.
Hogwash. You wanted to pick the thistle— I could see it in your eyes! To make this right with the Great Shade you must pick five weeds. This will protect the thistle. Alas, not from deviants like yourself... but it'll give the thistle more of a fighting chance in this soil.
How will this make amends, exactly?
You made me kill the plant!
The Great Shade is the lifeblood of this island, and thanks to folks like you it is in peril! If the simple Black Thistle goes extinct the Great Tree will be at greater risk than ever...
Er...
You should meet Anika. You have a lot in common.
I don't understand.
Oh yes, I hear her hooing like an owl sometimes around here. I usually pretend I'm not home...
There's nothing to be done about the Black Thistle you already destroyed, but if you go pick five scragweeds the Black Thistle may be able to spread their roots a bit further. Go now and make your amends. 
Have you made amends? Did you pick those weeds for me?
Is a ritual involved in "making amends?"
-Yes. Here you are.
Not yet.
I don't think I should have to...
*laughs* You certainly have a habit of making me laugh!
Well, go on, get out there, child! No excuses! Shade's sake, you'd think I was some kind of school teacher! We're making Eastshade a more beautiful place, you know.
Beautiful! Simply beautiful! I do apologize for all the trouble I gave you, traveler. Anytime you want to make Eastshade more beautiful, do bring back more weeds! I'll compensate you handsomely.
Do you have any weeds for me, traveler?
What do you do with them anyway?
Yes.
Not right now.
I still like to have a few secrets of my own!
*chants meditatively* Ooooo... I see... you! You have traveled from afar... over the great sea...
Oooooo.... Good fortune has brought you upon Eastshade's fair shores...
Are you going to tell me about my future?
[Remain silent]
Hush, child!
You will help many people... and certainly find the happiness and peace you have been looking for in this place...
But be wary of those whose principles differ from your own... Ooooo...
There is nothing more I can share with you at this time... Ooooo...
That's it? What kind of fortune teller are you?!
I'll just leave then.
I know not what you mean... Ooooo...
I think you do.
Anyone could've made that up!
Life is what you make of it... Oooo... Words are what you make of them... Oooo...
Fare thee well, traveler.
Oooo... I am channeling the energy of the Great Shade... Oooo...
Excellent, excellent! Do hurry back for your fortune!
So you'll bring some thistle?
Alright.
No, that plant is protected!
Come back with the glowstones, and a grand fortune you shall be told!
If you happen to find a few weeds 'round the thistle, I will pay you to bring them to me... Oooo...
Okay?
You want me to do your work for you?
Weeds are no good for the Black Thistle... Oooo...
I am channeling the energies of the universe... Oooo...
Farewell, traveler.
Gah. Very well.
Will you pick the scragweeds as I asked?
Okay, I'll help.
No.
Beautiful place to come and think, wouldn't you say?
What are you doing out here?
It is nice here.
I prefer other areas of Eastshade.
My husband liked to come out here and fish. We spent many nights camping here in the Blushwood... But now Old Pops is doing his best to tarnish my fond memories!
Uh, is Old Pops your grandfather?
Old Pops?
This place will always be closest to my heart.
Grandfather! Goodness no, traveler.
Old Pops is a fish— the biggest fish in the lake!
What did this fish do to you?
What didn't he do?! This fish has haunted my dreams for what seems like ages.
Old Pops... That evil fish— he has it out for me, I'll have you know! I was out on the boat with my husband, Farid— an anniversary camping trip— when Old Pops leaps out of the water and snatches my wedding ring right off'a my finger!
That sounds hard to believe.
Are you sure that's what happened?
They say when you stare Old Pops straight in the eye, he conjures an image of what you most want in this world and makes that thing seem real to you— as real as day! Say, what would Old Pops make you think of? What do you treasure most? Adventure? Paintin'?
Family.
Adventure.
Treasure.
Art.
I'm not sure.
Well, some of those folks might be tryin' to cover up the fact they misplaced their precious items. It’s easy to blame it on a fish... but he really did eat my ring!
That's admirable, traveler. Most important thing in the world. *sighs* My Farid... What would I do without him?
I've never gone on much of an adventure... I suppose my grandest adventures have been camping out here with my Farid.
Don't s'pose you've heard of an old collector woman 'round Nava? She's always going on about treasure and the like. Quite a waste, really.
You know, I never gave much thought to art having importance and all that. I s'pose it does, though. I know my Farid would of loved to have an artist's rendering of him with Old Pops.
I recommend you do some soul searching— some reflecting while you're in this place. There's no better place than this patch o' the Blushwood for thinking on your life and why it is you're in this world. Too many folk just go on through life without thinking upon the why.
That's enough reflecting for the time being. You and I— people of action! I don't suppose you'd be willing to help me get my wedding ring back?
Are you sure it's safe?
Maybe later.
*whistling a tune* That Old Pops— he's out to get ya, yes indeed! You gonna help me reclaim what's rightfully mine from that fishy fiend?
Are you sure it's safe?
Maybe later.
Excellent, excellent! *yelling* Old Pops, better watch out— our new traveler friend is a-comin' for you!
That Ol' Pops. he's out to get me, yes indeed. *whistling*
Of course, of course! He's a big ol' fish, but you're strong? Will you get that ring for me?
Sure.
Not now.
-I already have Old Pops!
-I already found the ring!
*whistling* That Oooool' Pops! He's a-comin' for you... No ring, traveler? Hop to it! I'm counting on you to set things right in the sea!
Whoo-ee! Look at that big fish! I don't s'pose you want to put your hand in there and fish around for my wedding ring?
You found me my ring, traveler?! But you didn't bring the ol' fish!
I, uh, didn't realize you needed him.
I'm not a fish murderer!
I s'pose some folks would be upset to see that old fish gone. He's been around since before I was a young girl.
And thank the Great Shade you survived!
What do you mean, 'survived?'
You thought Old Pops would kill me?!
I don't need him, per se.
I'm so glad just to be reunited with my wedding ring! Thank you for bringing it back!
Didn't think so. It'll come out sooner or later.
-He coughed it up.
Here, have a few glowstones!
Well, it's hard to be sure! What a mean-spirited old fish! You ever hear the tale of how Old Pops came to be so grumpy? No? You're in for a treat!
Well, you see— there was one day Old Pops swallowed a bitter frog...
So he swallowed this frog and the taste was so awful, Old Pops started thrashing 'round something terrible!
There was a boat nearby, and when Old Pops leapt outta the water he hit it, hard.
The boat was knocked over and the captain was real upset. He was yelling and ended up harpooning the giant fish right in the side. Didn't you notice the large gash on Old Pops?
So anyhows, Old Pops has been bitter ever since.
Can't believe you survived fetching my ring from 'im!
That Ol' Pops. He's got it out for us all! *whistling*
What luck!
Thank the Shade!
People 'round here talk about Old Pops like he's some sort of magical fish, with healing properties or some nonsense.
You ever wonder what it's like to be so different from all those other fish out there? What it's like to be so big, you accidentally throw a bunch of people overboard?
Guess Old Pops doesn't have it easy.
I haven't given it much thought.
He did? Well, now isn't that convenient! Give it here!
Can't right say for sure. Just a grumpy ol' fish, he is!
It's not the first time he's pulled something like this! He's taken glowstones and bracelets... Sneakiest thief on the island, that fish is!
Old Pops only eats valuables?
Why is he out to get you?
You stay careful 'round Old Pops, you hear? He has it out for us... especially boaters and fisherfolk.
Wait! I need your help to get out of here. Please wait!
My children and I were visiting Eastshade and we went out on the ocean for some fishing, when a terrible squall capsized us and sunk our boat. I've been stuck here, worried to death about them!
-I think I've met your children!
I'm sorry, I haven't seen them.
Oh, thank the moon and stars! Are they safe? Where are they?
They're being cared for.
They've set up camp in the woods.
I have a plan, but I can't do it alone.
How can I help?
I can't help right now, I'm sorry.
Well... I must stay hopeful and vigilant. They must be okay. I just need to get out of this cove.
How can I help?
I can't help right now, I'm sorry.
There's no way the two of us are going to fit in that kayak of yours. But that access ramp— if you could craft a rope out of twine I think you could hang it from the end of the ramp.
I can do that for you!
You're just going to leave me stranded here? While my children are out there waiting for me?
Sorry, of course I'll help you.
I'm just really busy.
What kind of monster are you?
I can't believe this...
You again? Back here to taunt me while I stand in my grave and my children wonder where their father is? How nice.
I want to help you.
Goodbye.
Thanks for stopping by, but I really need to get out of here. I'm running low on food and water.
Hello! Excuse me! I desperately need your help. Please don't leave.
What's wrong?
I'm sorry, I have to go.
I've been stranded in this cove for two days! If the old fisherman's ramp was still standing I could have just walked out, but as it is I'm stuck!
How did you get here?
I will come back.
Thank you! I'm so lucky you found me.
Stop bothering me.
I can help now.
Bye.
It's good to see you again! I don't like being stuck in this cove. How are you going with making the rope?
Still working on it.
-I have a rope!
-I think I found your children!
How do I make a rope?
That's great! See if you can find a way up to that broken access ramp and hang the rope from one of its wooden beams.
See if you can find a way up to the top of the access ramp.
This is the best news— thank you! I just need to get out of here and find them!
You can make a rope with twine. To make the twine you need to first find some sturdy roots. I'd make a rope myself but this beach has nothing I can use.
There's rope on your tent.
Okay, got it.
Believe me, I thought of that. These ropes are old and fraying... I've had this tent for years. If I put all my weight on the ropes they'd tear immediately.
Okay, I'll make a new rope.
You've rescued me! I am eternally grateful. If there's one more thing I could ask you for...
Go on...
I have to find my children. Do you know where they are?
-They are with Toma.
-They are hiding in the forest.
I'm sorry, I don't know.
I need to go find them! No time to waste!
This is a miracle! Thank you! I don't know what I would do without you. I'm going to go and look for them right away. No time to waste!
Hello again! You've caught me having a moment's rest.
No problem, no problem! Come back anytime you want to earn some glowstones.
Excellent! Thank you, my friend, for taking on this task!
Don't worry! I'll have this fence patched up by tonight! Then we'll see who the king of the carrots is!
Ahoy there, traveler! Alas, those carrot-chompers are still at it! Seems the mice are trapped inside my new fence. Odd though... they never leave so much as a stem behind. Hungry little creatures, aren't they?
What about my reward?
Anything I can do to help?
I quite like to sing to myself as I stand guard. Like to think it puts the little mice at ease too. Ha! Perhaps I'm making ‘em too nice a home here!
Were you able to get some repellent?
-Here you go.
-I overheard something strange...
They didn't have any repellent.
Kai and Kaelen?! They would never! Ah, you're a good person, just looking out for me and my carrots. And I do have days where I wonder myself if I'm dreaming up the mice in my head— never actually seen the little buggers. But them two? Positively impossible.
Oh well. Can't win ‘em all, I guess. Who knows? Maybe my big ugly mug will scare the little creatures away! En garde!
Whooee! Special veggie stew, coming right up!
The little mice are still nibblin' away, but I'm sure the repellent'll clear them out of my garden soon!
Why hello, friend! Glorious day, wouldn't you say? What an incredible day to be alive!
Absolutely!
You seem... happy.
Ah, marvelous place, Eastshade! Only trouble is, traveler— the little mice.
The what?
I'm standing guard, but it's not working! Somehow they're getting past me. Must be while I'm sleeping. Not that I mind, really. I'm glad they have a proper meal.
Tell you what. Bring me seven sticks so I can finish my fence. That just may do the trick against these crafty carrot-eaters! Course, I never let a friend journey on without a few glowstones to pad their pocket. How's 10 sound?
Sounds great!
-I've already got seven!
I have something else to do...
Back so soon?! You must have feet of the wind! That, or you just wanted to come back and hear about my family's secret stew recipe.
I like a good stew!
I guess I'll go get those sticks…
One day— once these carrot-eaters stop eating my harvest— perhaps we'll share a bowl and a laugh!
You're back! I've been thinking... It'll be a bit strange to have a fence here, blocking all the little critters out of my garden. Ah well, has to be done.
Oh, listen to me— I sound like an old-timer!
A bit...
Not at all!
Refreshing to hear someone say it, other than myself! I'm sure the polite nature of Eastshade folk has a reputation far and wide. No chance one would wrong another.
What a fine one you are! Polite as they come! You'll fit in splendidly in our little community here in Eastshade. Folk are as kind as can be.
Anyhow, thanks for getting these sticks for me! It's a full time job, standing guard! Why don't you come back in a day's time? That'll give me time to patch up this fence and see how it does against the little mice.
I'm touched you're so concerned about my garden, but I assure you, I can patch up this fence in no time! Not to worry!
You're in a hurry to travel onward! Can't say as I blame you. So much beauty to explore here in Eastshade.
Why don't you stop by K&K Apothecary? Kai and Kaelen should have some repellent that'll send any critters bolting! They live west of here, along the riverbank on the south side of the Blushwoods.
Da de da, mice in my garden. Fiddle dee dee, squash in my stew!
Hi-de-ho! The great traveler returns!
Someday we'll share my famous secret stew!
Seems my ol' mug isn't scaring the critters away, but I'm giving it my best! I'd adopt the little critters, if I could just find 'em first!
Your heart's in a good place. You'll see— these mice will be out of there in no time!
-Here's the repellent.
I don't have the repellent.
...but how I dream of cooking up a proper stew— vegetable, of course! Can't have a good stew without an assortment of the finest crops, eh?
Sounds delicious.
I prefer a hearty meat stew myself.
Oh! You're a mutton-eater... Well, I won't hold it against you, of course. Folks have gotta eat! Plenty of folk around here enjoy a mutton stew as it is. Just try to pat a sheep on the noggin' once in a while to boost its spirits, will ya?
I'll try to remember that.
I don't want to get bitten by a sheep!
Such a jokester! Sheep are some of the nicest creatures you'll ever meet. Just like these here mice!
Ah, I see you're a traveler, swept in from some distant land. How enchanting!
The little mice! You see, they've taken a liking to my garden. Not sure how they eat so much when I'm not looking! Must be bigger than I think!
Well, thanks, friend! This should do the trick! You be safe now. And don't forget to smell the roses!
Course, I appreciate your help! Nothing wrong with running around, picking up sticks. Just don't forget to get lost once in a while, eh? And look around you, smell the roses!
I like taking my time.
I should slow down more often.
No way! I don't have time for that!
Ah, isn't that perfect! I knew it was a good thing we met, traveler.
Welcome to K&K Apothecary! The finest source for all your medicinal tincture needs! If you hear of anyone looking for an apothecary, send them our way.
Oh, this is so unlike us... We never wanted to steal from Fynn, you know. I would've done anything else if I could... I'm horrified by what we've done to such a sweet old man.
I'm... I'm sorry. Just not feeling like myself at the moment. I mean, what kind of people are we? What have we become?
-I spoke with Anika.
You just need to fix your mistake.
Pretty awful people.
I cleared your husband's name!
Oh, what a lovely woman! Don't listen to what my husband says about her. I haven't made it to Southland in some time. How is Anika doing?
Kai may have used an endangered plant.
She seems great.
One of Kai's potions?! Oh, he'd better not have!
Glad to hear it! And... does she seem in need of any tinctures or potions?
Oh, thank the Great Shade! Kai will be thrilled to hear it. Surely this will turn things around for the business!
From... the thievery? You told Fynn?
No, the endangered plant rumors.
Er... actually, I guess I see exactly how that happened... I only hope the news of our morality spreads just as quickly!
We've really worked our way into a predicament. Even if we left Eastshade, who's to say it would turn out better for us elsewhere?
I haven't seen this many glowstones in, sheesh, years! We can never thank you enough for everything you've done to clear Kai's name!
I'm so happy we've sorted all of this out! I know we've done some questionable things, but we're turning a new leaf now!
You're right. We made our beds... full of lice and thorns I suppose... now to sleep in them.
You're right... Can't deny we made a terrible choice...
We'll need to make this up to Fynn somehow.
Or really... just send anyone our way... it's been so long since we've had a single customer...
And I'm going to put together a kit of tinctures for Fynn and tell him just what happened. We're going to be new people!
No, he wouldn't! For good grief, those days are long behind him.
Ah, of course! How that story started I'll never understand.
Sorry... this is not the time. Was she able to offer us anything?
Kai may have used an endangered plant.
Sorry, no.
So, you're stealing from Fynn?
Fynn needs some vermin repellent...
[Buy repellent]
Er, yes, indeed! You'll be needing the strongest repellent available to rid your garden of those pests! 
For Fynn's garden, you say? Just, er... don't expect this to work straight away.
Why not?
It, er... has more of a simmering effect, like a strong mulled wine! The longer you leave the repellent on, the more powerful it'll be.
[Buy repellent]
Never mind.
You came to the right place! Say, what are you using them for anyway?
The vermin in Fynn's garden.
No reason in particular.
That will be 5 glowstones.
Here you are.
No one is buying herbs like they used to. You understand?
I'm not sure I do...
I get it.
You'd best not tell anyone about this. It would kill Fynn to hear anything bad about his neighbors, you hear? I don't mean to sound so sinister, you know, it's just—
You do? Oh, good. You never know who you can trust.
Times have been hard since Kaelen's father stopped supporting us. We thought we could make it on our own... but, truth is, no one seems to have much use for an apothecary. Not out in these parts anyway! I don't right know where everyone's getting their goods.
Maybe it's time we moved on from Eastshade and found ourselves a place where we can make a proper living. Actually, there may be something you could help us with— one last try to make it here before we call it quits. Will you help us?
Okay.
Maybe another time.
No way! You were terrible to Fynn!
Ah, well, just please— please! Don't tell Fynn what we've done! We promise we'll stop soon... We aren't bad folk. Come back if you need any supplies.
I'd like some repellent on the house.
[Buy repellent]
Never mind.
You're back. What are you looking for today?
[Buy repellent]
Maybe I can help...
I overheard something about glowstone troubles.
I'll get you those glowstones soon.
I'm all set.
Just hurry, okay?
Oh, uh, didn't realize anyone was there... What do you want?
We've got the best herbs and potions in all of Eastshade! Tell your family, friends, and random acquaintances to come here for all their apothecary needs!
You heard us? Oh, for criminy—
What is it you'd have us do? Eat dirt? We had no choice!
There's always a choice.
You could've asked for help.
I could use some repellent, on the house.
I'm afraid we've used up our luck around here. I wouldn't dare ask for a single glowstone of charity!
Criminy! And you're making us out to be the bad guys! But I guess we have no choice... I beg of you, please buy them from us.
I feel like I failed Kaelen... but I don't know what I could've done better!
Maybe I can help.
[Buy repellent]
Bye.
Suppose we can't right blame you. Glowstones must be tight all over Eastshade...
Did you return to extort us for all we have left in this world?
Of course!
I'm only restoring balance in the world.
I won't demand anything else.
Pah! Get outta here, unless you want to buy something.
[Buy repellent]
I'll help you with your problem.
I'm going.
I got my eye on you.
I'll help you with your problem.
I'm leaving.
You lying to me? I got no use for liars.
Look who's talking.
I'm not lying. I swear!
Look, you— If I wanted judgment, I'd go talk to Emine. I heard her gossiping about Ehsan's parenting.
Relax, relax! I'll help you!
I'm leaving now.
Criminy. You shouldn't barge in on someone like that! How much did you hear?
Enough to interest Fynn.
Nothing, I swear!
Hard to say.
Don't know if I can trust you.
You absolutely can!
I don't know if I'd trust me either.
Er, right... Did you need something?
You'll help us? This'll mean so much to Kaelen!
Have you reconsidered? Will you help us with our financial troubles? Not that we deserve help, of course...
Okay.
Maybe another time.
No way! You were terrible to Fynn!
I'd like some repellent on the house.
[Buy repellent]
... Mainly because... we're already indebted to just about everyone we know...
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
deleted
Dismount
Use
Browse your paintings
Open Inventory
Drag to adjust cropping
Paint
Retrieve your easel
Open inventory to craft a canvas
Skip
Ilham
Book Seller
Shadian Post Tea Season
Tea Season Blooms on the Island
Fish of the Fellstream River
A helpful fishing guide.
Inventory
Have a nice day!
Mhm.
See you.
See you later.
See you around.
Have a nice day.
Hmph.
They're... so very sad.
Wow. I can't imagine what far reaches you've been to to find that place!
{tab}Lyndow's buildings are engineering marvels, as difficult to construct as they are beautiful. The designs of these technical endeavors are the work of one eccentric genius: Azad of Taria. Five years ago this incredible architect vanished. His whereabouts remain a mystery to this day. {tab}Though praised for his accomplishments in engineering and architecture, he is perhaps most widely recognized throughout Eastshade for a rare genetic facial disfigurement. A polarizing celebrity, many praise his genius, while others resent his supposedly arrogant disposition. Some even claim that his notoriety is owed entirely to the disfigurement, implying that his credited skills are, in actuality, nothing more than ordinary. However, one only needs look around the town of Lyndow to see he has built something wonderful.
[Pick Topic]
[Pick Topic]
[Browse Goods]
[Pick Topic]
Bye.
Interested in a book?
[Browse Goods]
Bye.
Books
Consumables
Drinks
Equipment
All
Sit
I splashed the contents of the vial onto the vine.
No tea vine near.
Report a bug
Painting is now in inventory.
Reserved for<size=250%>HistorianOmiros
Reserved for<size=250%>ReileyAmir
Reserved for<size=250%>RadmilaBelinda
Reserved for<size=250%>Vadim
Reserved for<size=250%>Helena
Reserved for<size=250%>Detective
I've hung the poster in a busy spot. I should see if the pilot is getting any business.
Samiya was pleased that I used Tiem's Antidote on the tea vines in the Root's club. She assured me that Tiem will smile upon me. I wonder what that antidote did?
A Botanist's Guide to Eastshade  •  Third Edition
{tab}Crassula Natantis, commonly known as 'bloomsac,' is native to the Lyndow region of Eastshade. The blossoms of the bloomsac are fully enclosed and filled with a mixture of air, viscous sap, and seeds. Upon reaching full size, blossoms fall to the ground and split open allowing for reseeding. If prepared correctly the sap may be consumed as a beverage, often referred to as Bloomsac Tea.{tab}The blossoms develop a hard skin when harvested, making them ideal for use as flotation devices.
A Captain's Memoir  •  Clara Stone
Everyone feared I would die on my expedition. I had some sense that this was possible, but no real notion of what death meant. It all felt a bit similar to me at the time. I could remain in Lyndow, feeling utterly drained and deprived of life— or explore the world and take on the risks of capsizing or contracting an undocumented illness. It was not until I grew much older, learned the seas, and met new eager youngsters that I finally began to understand the dangerous reality of my first mission. I can now see why everyone fretted at my departure. Two of my crewmates passed away on that journey. I returned home after four years, and only stayed for a week before setting sail again. My uncle died just three weeks later. I cherish my adventures even more now for the thought that my uncle suffered so dearly for me to live them. I don't regret the journeys I made— but I'm exceedingly grateful to those who loved me and did their best to ensure my safe return.
A History of Navian Tea
{tab}The floral scent of tea fields is one which all Navians think of fondly and look forward to in the rainy season. Though much of the agriculture in Nava has turned to pea-farming, the Navian Steppes host the island’s largest tea fields, with some plants over 55 years old. Each farmer has their own methods for drying and blending teas, but the most basic recipe for a classic Eastshade brew is a secret mix of three different varieties of tea leaf. Legend says that a wealthy merchant arrived in the city during a drought; rather than disappoint the merchant with only a single cup of weak tea, the farmers combined their leaves and created a new taste unlike any other. Imported teas in recent years have brought new flavors and variety to the market, much to the delight of tea drinkers the island over!
Adventure Lifestyle Magazine
Building a Campfire
{tab}A campfire is a handy tool for those wishing to brave the cold nights of Eastshade. Build one to cozy up your campsite and brew a nice cup of tea. In this issue of Adventure Lifestyle Magazine we'll teach you how to light a fire of your own!{tab}Simply follow the schematic included here to light a roaring fire sure to keep your evenings comfortable. Strap on your boots, Adventurers, because the first step is collecting materials!
{tab}Fellow Adventurer, Lisdel, shares the tale of his first time building a fire: "Well, I'll never go back to sitting in the cold dark again! I ended up smelling like smoke, which wasn't my favorite thing, but you can't have a good camping experience without a toasty fire!"
Ancient Power of the Tiffmoor Ruins
Healing Magic
Some believe the Tiffmoor Ruins hold the power to heal all wounds and illness. Why we do not enter the ruins to seek out this power is beyond comprehension. It is trusted by many that simply standing in the presence of the ruins is enough to cure small sicknesses and ease the mind of worry.It is a sad thing that the progeny of the peoples who built these magical places do not see fit to share the wonderful spiritual energy here. They instead lock it away— could it be they want the power only for themselves? Alas, we must respect their wishes, and only wonder at the amazing energy still sealed within the walls of the ruined tombs.
Tiffmoor Ruins{tab}Property Deed of Sale
The Seller also agrees to make a public and solemn declaration that they have personally entered the ruins and determined them to be completely empty and void of sacred importance. Blue Rose Industries will conduct an archaeological study to confirm these statements.With compliance to these standards the Seller agrees to the set payment of 2000 glowstones for the complete property, and rights to all explorations of the Tiffmoor Ruins in any manner Blue Rose Industries sees fit.Please sign below,  _________________________
Property of CDR. Liliana
Week 14Continuing our excavation of the glacier. We discovered what appears to be the entrance of a collapsed tunnel. We’ve also found some ancient carvings in the ice. Most of the time my ears are frozen and my fur thick with icicles— I don’t know how anyone ever managed to live here.Week 16The nights continue to grow stranger. We’ve taken to scheduling watches. Last night Fedir swore he saw a figure standing atop the glacier across the bay. As he watched, the thing stretched its arms out wide, growing larger and shrieking. Fedir called out, and the person fell forward, dropping off the glacier. I woke up to Fedir screaming in a state of panic, but in the confusion we couldn’t tell if the figure hit the water. This
Property of CDR. Liliana
morning we took the boat to look for a body, but there was nothing. I can't help but think Fedir was just having a nightmare. But part of me isn't so sure.End of Week 16I’m writing this by firelight— I don’t think it’s safe here. Meira has been talking to someone invisible whenever she thinks we're not listening. Fedir continues to talk of figures in the night and insists we're all going to die— I shouldn't let him keep watch anymore. I could have ignored most of this, but now... all around us I hear whispers. They’re soft, and gentle, but every so often one voice screams— a horrible twisted sound that echoes across the ice. I think we need to leave here.
Fish of the Fellstream River
{tab}The scales of the ultramarine minnow were once ground down to create a deep blue pigment used in paint. These fish consume nearly anything, aside from fish, and have been found to eat plants and even eggs.{tab}The motudh trout— or thunder trout— leaps from water at high speeds before crashing back down. It is believed that the fish do this to catch flies, but it’s been surmised that they may also be engaging in play. When entire hovers of thunder trout do this at once, it creates a rumble that can be felt from land. Thunder trout prey on Ultramarine Minnows and prefer to live in river waters.
Fish of the Fellstream River
{tab}The drymouthed sandfish swallows vast quantities of silt allowing it to rest heavily on the river bed. Preying on thunder trout, the sandfish emits a burst of sand as prey approaches, disorienting the smaller fish and consuming it along with the displaced sand.{tab}One Sandfish has gained particular notoriety in Eastshade for being a menace to fisherfolk and boaters. This fish is known to locals as Old Pops and has been observed wreaking havoc in the Sinkwood Lake.
Shadian Folktales Vol. 1
Long ago, the air outside the planet grew terribly cold. Without any fur or feathers for protection, Sun began to freeze. She decided to make her flames as big and hot as possible to keep herself warm. Sun worked all day and night to keep her fires burning. Enormous flames reached all the way out to our soil and began to scorch the creatures here. Fires raged, destroying homes and forests, but Sun was too exhausted to notice. Growing worried, the plants and creatures decided to help her.
Shadian Folktales Vol. 1
Together they gathered twigs, leaves, fur and feathers, and wove them all together into a large sheet of fabric. They covered it with clay to protect it from fire, and the trees lifted the woven mass into the sky."Take this blanket to rest yourself in warmth!" The creatures cried. Sun slipped under the blanket and wrapped herself tightly. Her flames cooled and dimmed, leaving the land creatures in darkness.When Sun woke from her nap her golden light returned to the creatures, who danced and sang, thankful that their gift had worked. And so, that is the story of Sun’s blanket, which she still uses each day.
Great Voyages
The seas of the North are widely unexplored. Researchers predict these waters are expansive and small expeditions have revealed numerous islands filled with diverse life and communities. Due to the unpredictable and violent nature of these waters many exploration ships have been lost while attempting to form new contacts and carry out scientific research.
All eyes on the horizon!
Property ofClara S.If found pleasereturn to Portof Lyndow.
Green Book of Poetry
Ode to the Blushwoods
* * *Oh, Blushwood Forest, gentle trailsWe hiked along, our hearts unveiledHer cheeks did match the firs above, As we sang a song of rosy loveA chipmunk heard our melody So came to join us happilyOh, tiny friend, come join our songWe’ll dance and laugh the whole night longBut from his branch rained scores of nuts—He’d only wished to shut us up!
A.P.
I had a dream last night— I can’t remember the details now, but when I woke up everything was different. I don’t know how else to say it, but suddenly the sun felt brighter, and the air is so sweet, like it’s been scented by roses. I looked out my window for what might have been the first time. I never realized how beautiful the city looks from here. I have so many ideas — so many things I want to write about. I wrote eleven pages this morning at the teahouse! And they were good pages! I’ve just read back through them. I’m off to work now, but I can’t wait until this evening.
Sinkwood InnProperty Deed of Sale
Kevork agrees to sell the Sinkwood Inn to Blue Rose Industries for the complete price of 1000 glowstones. The sale includes the building, grounds, and business. Any employees remaining at the Inn will be employees of Blue Rose Industries and subject to salary negotiations. Please sign below,_________________________
Once an old lady went up into a tall tower right on the coast. She stayed up there watching the ocean and eating snacks until it was past her bedtime. Then she wanted to go home to see her cat. She started to go down the stairs but she fell because she was so tired. Then she died. She turned into a ghost and now she stays in the tower and haunts it. She turns on the lights whenever night comes so that her cat can find her, but the cat doesn’t ever go because the tower is too scary. The end.
[player name],I doubt you remember, but we met in my tower after you boorishly intruded in the middle of the night. After leaving Eastshade I came to the Shellian Archipelago and learned that you reside here as well. In my time here I’ve had the chance to read the book you mentioned— the one praising my work— and have met some local architects as well. I’m not sure you’d call them friends, but we do spend time speaking about buildings and other high arts. In any case, and for reasons somewhat beyond me, one of them has fallen in love with the painting you’ve done of Lyndow. They would like to request you to paint their work at your convenience.Perhaps I will see you again soon. Azad
Hi there, Old Pal!Hope you’ve been well! Business a huge success over here. Couldn’t have done it without you! Planning a trip over to the archipelago soon— first flight across the seas. I’m hoping you can do some promotional work for me— get folks excited to see the landing!Best wishes to you!
Dear [player name],I wanted to thank you for sharing your skills with my daughter, Sanja. She’s been busily painting away, and our walls are nearly covered with paintings now. She’s been teaching other children how to paint as well and hopes to travel one day too. Thank you for sharing your inspiration!
Dear [player name]Thank you for teaching me how to make canvases! I met another painter and she’s teaching me how to make my paintings even better! I hope you had a nice time going home and I hope your new ship didn’t sink!
Dear [player name],It was nice to meet you and have you stay in our little town. I wanted to thank you again for the painting— it’s made somewhat of an impression here and folks are starting to talk about it as a sort of tourist attraction! In any case I wanted to send you a sample of my newest blend of tea—  enjoy!Nika from the Inglenook Inn
Hello again traveler,I heard you made it back to the mainland— hope you’re doing well. Bojan was thinking about the conversations you had, so we thought we’d see how you’ve been faring! Bojan doesn’t write much but he wanted to ask if you’ve been out rafting lately and whether you’ve had a chance to eat something called slug cakes? I’ve never had them myself, they must be a wonderful delicacy from your hometown!Onur and Bojan
Greetings,This is Park Ranger from the Shade National Park of Eastshade. I don’t know if this will get to you— the world is getting so big— I guess it might end up lost, but I figured I’d try. The waterfoxes here are doing much better now. They came out of their cave and I found another pack living near the Great Tree. Lots of people are taking new interest in the park and waterfoxes, so thank you for helping make that happen. Up at the Kestral’s Aerie they started selling these little postcards— the waterfoxes are bringing so many people out to the forest. Thought you might like one.Take care,Park Ranger Viktar
University of Nava
Omiros,Please take this letter as a formal notice of dismissal from your position at the University. We appreciate your hard work through the decades. However, time has proven that there is no new information to discover regarding the Tiffmoor Ruins and, unfortunately, the University can no longer fund the program. My sincerest regrets,R.T. Dean
My dearest family,I've thought a lot about our dedication to preserving the sanctity of the ruins. It has meant so much to me that you've all stood by my side in this battle. It pains me to write that my health is declining. There is little to be done, but with any luck there may be a treatment available in Nava. I only hope that
Dear Viktar,How I have missed you! Only three months into my journey and a large part of me wonders if it was an utter folly. I can’t help but think of all the work you're doing in the Shade without my help. Your dedication to the park is what inspired me to set out in search of my dearest passion— but what I've found is that the world feels smaller without you by my side. For all the endless islands and new cities, I still find myself wishing to spend an evening by the fire with you. And so, I have decided to return early! I had planned to surprise you, but couldn’t wait. The world is beautiful, but even still— the vision of you is the one I cherish most.With love,NilsP.S. I look forward to hearing about the birth of the waterfox kits! They'll be nearly full grown by the time I return!
K&K Apothecary
QualneathRoot
For temporary treatment of nerves, forgetfulness, and shaky hands. No more than two drops a day.
Naida the Waterfox
Selios laid out his blanket in a patch of sunlight. His waterfox, Naida, sniffed about, searching for a nest of eggs to snack on. Stomach growling, he pulled a sachet of frosted biscuits and berry wine from his pack.Naida howled in excitement— she’d found a nest. With a thick crunch she cracked into the egg, hungrily lapping out the contents before batting the empty shell aside. Selios grimaced as she started on her second egg. As charming as he found waterfoxes, he couldn’t stomach their eating habits.
TEA SEASON BLOOMS ON THE ISLAND
Reported by Eszter Clearwell
Air thick with the scent of budding herbs and brewing teas can only mean one thing: the season for wildcrafting has finally arrived! Herbal flowers and tea leaves are coming into bloom and Eastshadians young and old are eager to fill their baskets with the finest cuttings. Thanks to the Shared Fields law all of these delicious plants are free for the plucking. While locals are well-aware of (and very secretive about) the best collection areas, tourists are encouraged to explore the land and collect what they find!Be forewarned— the herb Blackthistle remains an endangered species and should not be collected under any circumstances. Happy harvesting!
TAKE TO THE SKIES
MAJESTIC AIRCRAFT OFFERS A NEW PERSPECTIVE
Reported by Eszter Clearwell
A new attraction has landed at the gates of our beloved city. I had the pleasure of riding in an aircraft called <i>[balloon name]</i>, a large air-filled contraption capable of flight. Several years ago the trails leading to the top of the Restless Reach were washed out; but thanks to this new invention those mountain peaks are accessible once again! Captain Nessa, the designer of the ship, is an ambitious pilot eager to lead others into the skies. An unforgettable experience sure to lift the hearts of all Eastshadians!
IT'S 'GOODNIGHT' TO DREAM TEAS IN NAVA!
Reported by Eszter Clearwell
Have you ever enjoyed a relaxing tea which carried you to another world? Ever appreciated a nap on the safe seas of the underground cistern? No more! A mysterious toxin has spread throughout the tea-vines once grown there. Members of the Roots have declined to speak with me, but rumors abound. Some suspect the plants contracted a disease from the influx of visitors to Eastshade, while others surmise the plants were poisoned by a member of the Shez. We may never know the truth in this matter, but our hearts and minds will certainly feel the loss. Perhaps a small comfort for those who loved a relaxing cuppa; if the Shez are correct, the goddess of Tiem will surely smile on us this year.
ELIXIR OF LIFE? MORE LIKE 'ELIXIR OF LIES'!!
Reported by Eszter Clearwell
In a devastating turn of events our own city’s most cherished beverage has been unveiled as a sham. It’s been found through careful scientific research that the elixir does not in fact extend life at all. This crushing information was uncovered by Zahra, a University researcher who has run tests on the falsely advertised liquid. We appreciate her attention to detail, however, the city anxiously awaits a replacement for our wonder water, so cruelly taken from us.Quickly filling the void in our beloved life-giving stall is a new shop that buys bits and ends for a healthy price. A thrift and supply shop as some have taken to calling it. Stop in with any sticks, candles, or other items you’ve got lying about your home to make some extra
ELIXIR OF LIES CONT.
glowstones! While this replacement may not extend your life, the owner of the shop has this to say: “It’s sad to have lost such a hopeful establishment. My dream is for folks to discover that getting rid of items they don’t need is the true trick to a happier life.” Sage words indeed.
PROVEN INNOCENT!
POTIONSELLER PROVES HIS STRONGEST POTIONS ARE LEGAL
Reported by Eszter Clearwell
Kai and Kaelen Riverside are the owners and potion developers of a once bustling apothecary near Fellstream River. The apothecary fell into infamy as Kai was long suspected of using illegally sourced and nationally protected ingredients in the potions. Though never formally charged, suspicions ran deep enough to stunt their business entirely. In fact, this reporter discovered that few citizens had ever even heard of the apothecary. However, in recent events the allegedly illegal potions were tested and confirmed to contain no trace of protected ingredients. While it’s unclear how the rumors began, the couple is ecstatic to have been proven innocent. The two have amassed an astonishing level of debt and are finally on track to begin paying back their kind supporters.
SAVING THE RUINS
BUT NOT THE SPIRITS WITHIN THEM!
Reported by Eszter Clearwell
The Tiffmoor Ruins gained new protections today following concerns of disturbance to sacred land. The new laws mandate that the historical ruins cannot be used for profit if an ancient relic is found within the site.However, a pre-existing law states that if any ancient relics are found on a historical site, scientists will be given free reign over the land in order to conduct a full study and record the findings for posterity.Unfortunately, this does little to protect the native inhabitants who believe the sacred ruins should not be entered by anyone for any reason. Activists have loudly stated there is nothing of interest within the ruins, but only time will tell if this is true and whether science or business will be taking over the bluffs.
V, I was digging around near those old ruins  you're so obsessed with. Found this thing that looks an awful lot like an ancient  relic. Thought you might want to keep it 'safe' til you officially own the property. Hope you can come up with a few extra  glowstones for me in exchange.
Dearest Goddess, creator of river, plants, and hills. Minder of stone, wind, and flame, please accept our most humble offering— grown and plucked with everlasting respect for your creations and their well-being.
Eternal Battle of Love
{tab}They pulled each other close as moonlight washed over them. "Surely nothing shall ever part us now! For we have braved through beasts and frozen nights, starvation and drought, yet finally life has brought me back to your arms!"{tab}"Our love shall last forever, but the battles have not ended. Our lives have been foretold in the stars and this is only the beginning. You can leave now and seek a simpler life— one with riches and comfort, warmth and a soft bed. No one would blame you."{tab}He knew that no warmth would be as real as that
Eternal Battle of Love
of her hands, no bed comfortable after sharing the ground with her. All his riches and comfort would be found in her eyes, her stories, her smile.{tab}"I will go with you."
Shadian Foxes: A Swift Downfall
{tab}The fields of Eastshade were once inhabited by berry-foxes. These minute canines were about two-paws length at full-size and consumed only berries. Often found below fruit trees and in tree nests, these creatures were highly social. Over-harvesting of fruit trees lead to a quick decline in population and an infection carried from overseas lead to extinction of the foxes’ favorite trees. Inhabitants attempted to adapt
Shadian Foxes: A Swift Downfall
the berry-fox to city living and alternative fruits, but success was limited. The berry-fox was extinct within the year.{tab}Faring slightly better are their relatives, the waterfoxes. Very little is known about these creatures, and their numbers are also in sharp decline. One of the few things naturalists have observed is that waterfoxes are very shy— they will not even approach their food or nest if someone is standing nearby. All observations of the creatures are best done at a distance. Waterfoxes have also been observed consuming eggs and caring for their young.
Dear [player name],{tab}On behalf of North Seas Shipping, we apologize for any and all inconvenience caused by the recent shipwreck of the vessel Annabelle. As a gesture of reparation we'd like to issue you one free ticket home. Please board any of our vessels departing from Lyndow. Rest assured that measures have been taken to improve the reliability of our ships and safety protocols have been updated accordingly.{tab}{tab}Our deepest apologies,{tab}{tab}North Seas Shipping
Structures of Eastshade
The signal towers dotted across the island were some of the first large structures built on Eastshade. Keepers stationed at each tower were trained to communicate in code with neighboring communities, sharing news of illness, emergency, and celebration. After trails were carved and literacy spread, the towers were decommissioned, though many remain standing.The first tower was built in Old Lyndow, and was also used to communicate with ships off the coast. The tower-keeper often signaled passing vessels to request international food items and medicines, which were then distributed to neighboring villages.
Property of Nikol
I can't believe this is the last time I'll ever set foot in these ruins. I know Aunty H would never sell the land for tourism, but she doesn't look well lately and I'm worried about her. The least I can do is ensure the land stays in our family. I've been sneaking out small relics to study in secret, but now it's too dangerous. Aunty H never wanted the ruins swarmed with archaeologists, and that's what would happen if the University found out what's really in here. She always said our ancestor's spirits lived down here, and in the cool silence I can almost believe it. It really is a sacred place.
The Tiffmoor Ruins:A Simple and Spiritual Discussion
Helena Mardwood
{tab}There are some in Eastshade who hold to the silly notion of finding great riches and antique wonders within the ruins. In reality, however, it is a known fact among native people that the ruins of our ancestors contain nothing of material value. These tombs are home to the ghosts of our ancestors, and traipsing through them in search of fortune or answers to our pasts would deeply dishonor those who walked before us.{tab}I have said before and will say again for all eternity— aside from the resting spirits, there is absolutely nothing within the Tiffmoor Ruins that would impress a modern Eastshadian.
The First Folk
Mother's Memorial Paintings
You've painted one of Mother's most beloved places. To keep it safe, preserve her memory in the Painting Menu.
Stay.
Can't leave with Dream Tea.
I reported Ehsan to the Sheriff. He told me it wasn't something they'd pursue.
I'm going fishing. Can you take these to market this afternoon? Please don't dump them in the bushes this time— I won't pay for it if you get fined again!
Property of Yulia Greywing
It's been raining for several weeks now. Tons of water pouring down in a constant torrent. Our home is filled with buckets to catch spills from the ever growing leaks. How I long for a moment of clear sky and a break from the incessant drip-dripping as I try to sleep!. . .Disaster has struck. Last night just after the eclipse the Redfeathers woke to a creaking and groaning. They grabbed their children and ran outside moments before the house split from its stilts and crashed into the river below. Madame Baker has ordered an evacuation of all of Lyndow until they can fortify our homes against this awful wet.. . .Oh, terrible news! And only a day after we evacuated our homes and made camp on high ground. The entirety of our happy village has sloughed off into the river! Nearly half of the hillside broke from the
Property of Yulia Greywing
mainland in a huge gush, taking our homes down with it. What a horrible thing the weather has cast upon us!
Blue Book of Poetry
Children
* * *All the children growing upLook out to sea, to sea,And once they seal their ships up tightThey set sail merrilyAll the children growing upLook out to field, to field,And as they plant their many seedsThey count their healthy yieldNow the children, all grown upLook back to home, to home,And though they travel far and near,Return from where they roam
I have asked Mudwillow to help me write this letter,I wish I knew your language better.It was so nice to meet you and share my home,I hope you are well, wherever you roam.I would love to hear more of the place where you live,Please write back soon if you have time to give.Best wishes to you my dear skyfolk friend,That’s all for this letter, goodbye, the end.
ALEJO
[player name]This is the Park Ranger from the National Park in Eastshade. Remember those seeds you recovered for me? I thought they'd be spoiled, since they're so old, but they've sprouted. The plant is invasive obviously, so don't go spreading it around!Park Ranger Viktar
Shadian Folktales Vol. 2
An owlfolk and a bearfolk went to the shore in a contest to see who could catch more fish. The bear roared and the fish cowered in fear so the bear could catch them. The owl flapped her wings and came at the fish from above, so they did not flee as she swooped in to catch them. So they raced until midnight when every fish in the ocean had been caught.The bear, certain that he had caught the most fish, was very tired and quickly curled into his bed for a long rest. The owl flew into her nest for a nap, quite confident that she had won the contest.
Shadian Folktales Vol. 2
Now, the fish were still swimming in the basket-traps, and they did not want to be eaten. They pushed and shoved, heaving the baskets down a hill and landing with a 'splash' into the ocean.But when the baskets burst open, the water they breathed wasn't salty at all. The fish had fallen into the lake instead and they very much enjoyed the absence of huge sea waves. And so the fish grew very comfortable in the Sinkwood Lake and Fellstream River, and they still live there to this day.As for the owlfolk and bearfolk, they each woke after a long slumber and forgot about the contest entirely.
Dear [player name],Kai and I wanted to apologize for the way you saw us... It was a low point to say the least, but thanks to you we’ve managed to turn our lives around. There’s nothing we could offer to repay you, but I hope you’ll accept these treats and our many thanks.Kaelen and KaiK&K Apothecary
Explorer's Guide to the Tiffmoor Bluffs
{tab}The remote Tiffmoor Bluffs are a well-enjoyed destination for Eastshadians. The Bluffs were once filled with bustle following the industrious wind-power boom. Today, that excitement has settled and travelers are now greeted by the gentle turning of windmills. Fields of endless herbs lure wildcrafters to the area and those knowing where to look may even view the remains of ancient ruins in the landscape.{tab}Anyone exploring the region should be sure to pack a coat or supply of mead to protect against the freezing winds swept upon the bluffs at night. For extra enjoyment, be sure to bring a tea kettle to take advantage of the many herbs growing on this wonderful land!
An arcane brew blended using an herb that's now illegal to harvest. The effects of Black Thistle are detrimental to drinkers and can have adverse effects.
• 1 Mountainwort• 1 Scragweed• 1 White Bloomsac
• 2 Heavy Reeds• 1 snatch of Roots
• 2 Black Thistle• 1 Inky Cap
• 3 Mountainworts
• 2 White Bloomsacs• 1 snatch of Roots
• 2 snatches of Roots• 1 Inky Cap
Ever since I moved out here I've only heard the drumming late in the night. Some nights I hear it, others I don't. Doesn't seem to be any pattern...
It's nice to see a familiar face— we don't get too many visitors out here!
You didn't happen to learn anything about the drumming, did you?
-Yes, actually!
Let's talk about it another time.
Well! I never would have imagined! The first folk, still living right here amongst us! That's just amazing...
I might just try to meet this Alejo fellow!
Here you are then. Nothing like a refreshing cup!
That'll keep your bones warm!
We creatives— me a writer, you a painter— we've got to stay inspired! Best way I've found is to drink many, many cups of tea. Always gives me a boost!
Bye.
Bye.
[Pick Topic]
See you.
[Pick Topic]
Hi there.
[Pick Topic]
[Report Ehsan]
See you.
Hmm. Afraid that's not really something we'd normally do anything about.
We'll see.
[Pick Topic]
See you later!
Ah yes— I think pretty soon you'll see, this day is as great as they come!
Feel free to visit the pea farms if you have a spare minute. We've always got plenty of work to do and we'll pay you for your effort!
We've got a lot of work down on the pea terraces. It can be draining, but I like to read in my free time. A nice book of poetry always boosts my spirits!
Last night I saw two shooting stars and right then I knew today was going to be a fine one!
My kids are around here somewhere... My wife says they're going to turn into pea pods from all the time they spend in the fields!
Ah, you're an artist? You must be very skilled! I can barely draw a straight line in the mud! *laughs*
If you're feeling especially energetic we could always use a hand in the fields!
I can't stop thinking about my dinner... Pea soup and mushed pickled peas. Mmmm.
-Show paintings.
-Show portfolio.
-Show portfolio.
I saw a wonderful show at the Tarnished Teapot last night.
Don't you just love the music of bards? I always wanted to be a bard when I was a child. But I never learned to play an instrument.
I traveled to Lyndow once when I was very young. Aside from that, I've never set a foot outside of Nava! My friends are planning a trip to the Tiffmoor Bluffs... We'll need a lot of mountainwort tea!
That stuff is a life-saver for weary feet.
The teahouse hosts a different musician or storyteller every evening. They're such inspiring events!
By the way, can I get you a tea? You must be parched... Let's see, I've got bloomsac or mountainwort.
Bloomsac, please.
Mountainwort, please.
No, thanks.
Here you go!
Like I said— those are long gone now! Huh-huh...
Medve is the family name of our dear park ranger, Viktar.
Though... the name sets a prickle in the back of my mind... Seems there was a trader in Nava who also has blood in the Medve line... Ah, it's hard to recall the details sometimes!
That's where I grew up. My best friend and I spent a lot of time out here though, running through the Blushwoods. There was an old shack right in this very spot that we used as our hideout.
Wasn't much more than a pile of boards back then, but I purchased the land and fixed it up.
My son, Fynn, brought his family out here too. He always loved trees more than the bricks of the city!
And I've got five beautiful grandchildren. Things couldn't be better!
Ah, the secretive, underground tea-drinking society! I've had a few cups of Dream Tea in my day, but things have changed since then. Now it's all locked doors and passwords!
Don't know too much about him, other than he's a big one. Bettin' he's a sandfish by the size of him.
You got a fishing pole? You're not gonna be catchin' Old Pops without one. Maybe not even with one, that flounderin' foe!
No doubtin' you could find one in Nava, if you've got some glowstones to spare.
-I spoke with Anika.
-I cleared your husband's name!
I hope you do.
Toxic Tuber
Not for eating!
Alejo showed me his home!
I did the best I could to help Tam. I was only able to recover one tuber.
Bye.
Oh, Leilani... *sigh*
I already gave you one!
You know what... This box is basically a historical artifact... It would be nice for other travelers to see a part of immigrant history. Would you mind delivering it to the innkeeper up the hill?
[Pick Topic]
Feel better. 
No, thanks.
I am sorry— I don't have any of your kind of money. My people use something we call egra. I don't know how it's called in your tongue. I am still learning your language from Mudwillow.
Can't do that right now.
Conversation Subtitles
Bark Subtitles
Junk Trader
Your boat is in your inventory.
I should check in Nava or Lyndow if there's a ship that can take me home.
The children will soon be reunited with their father.
The children have been reunited with their father.
Have any extra odds and ends you'd be interested in selling?
[Browse Goods]
Not at the moment.
-I think I met their father.
-I think I met the children's father.
Really!? That's great news!
He's trying to find them right now.
I'll send word to the Sheriff in Nava immediately. He'll make sure the message gets to their father.
No, thanks.
I met a woman pretending to be a fortune-teller in order to uncover those who have picked the endangered Black Thistle.
Tea Ingredients
I’ve told the other Roots members about the planned Shez attack and the warning you gave us. In light of this we are pleased to crown you an honorary Roots Leader. Your honesty and devotion to preserving our traditions is deeply appreciated. Please accept this amulet as thanks for the action you took to preserve our community.Dream in peace,The Roots
Tiem has smiled upon you for destroying the heathens in Nava. Tiem is grateful for your dedication to Her and the Shez traditions. Our creed says that anyone so dedicated to the mission of Tiem should possess the leaves of her glory. Hereby we present to you a Leaf of Tiem for you to protect and give as offering.
Tiem shines with you always.
Little is known about the first folk of Eastshade. Remnants show activity on the island dating back at least six hundred years. The ruins of the Tiffmoor Bluffs have yet to be closely studied, but it is believed that they were built centuries after initial inhabitation of the island.During Lyndow's settlement several relics and carvings were uncovered, but lost shortly after in the catastrophic mudslide. It was previously believed that the first families settled on Eastshade just two hundred years ago. We still have much to learn about Eastshade's true first inhabitants.
Dearest Traveler,Drumming unraveler,A start we had, when you stumbled inWe aren't used to this, me and my kin.A shock it must have been that night,To see us running off in fright!I do hope that you weren't offended,That's not how I would like this ended.If you forgive our quick retreat,I think that you and I should meet.Find me before dawn at Mudwillow's Mirror—I hope that I can make things clearer.
I don't think I should pick it...
I think I'll just go pick more Black Thistle.
Ah, really? So you're already a wily collector of illegal fauna?
I didn't know it was endangered.
Rules aren't my thing.
I figured no one would notice.
Of course! Of course!
A small price to pay for teaching someone the errors of their ways.
Tell me. What do you know of the Black Thistle of Eastshade?
No picking, pulling, or plucking!
Not much.
Ah, I see! I see!
You have made the right choice. You gave up knowledge of your future to preserve the future of the Great Shade.
If you want to help the park even more, I encourage you to collect five scragweeds from the forest. Those weeds do a lot of damage to the Blackthistle and the Great Tree as well!
Okay, I'll help!
Maybe later.
Have you collected any invasive scragweeds?
-Yes. Here you are.
Not yet.
Oh, picking a single sprig in all of the forest won't do much damage, will it? In exchange for hearing your fortune? I can see some very interesting things in your future...
I had to test the strength of your dedication!
That's ridiculous.
Strange way to protect the plant...
Yes. Seems people would do anything to hear their fortune!
But you were egging me on!
... ...
Don't you do that!
I provoked Ehsan into hitting me. The sheriff told me to stay clear of Ehsan.
-I saw the drummers.
Your bicycle is in your inventory.
Desktop
Main Menu
Are you sure you want to exit?
Continue
Sell
Pay
Schematic
▲Open your crafting box
Your canvases and paintings are found here. You can also access them with 'E'
AM
PM
Hot Spring Discovered
No Paintings or Canvases
You haven't created any paintings or canvases yet. When you do create a canvas, this is where you will find it.

Adrita's Great Journey
A local treasure representing the hopes and dreams of Eastshade's early residents.This intricate box was crafted by Adrita, an early immigrant who came to Eastshade by boat with her son, Medve.Inscribed with the long-honored bearfolk name, the box contained precious seeds from a far away land. For nearly a century, this artifact was believed lost to the tides. A sharp-footed traveler rescued the box from the Howling Caverns and returned the seeds safely to our very own Park Ranger Viktar.Thanks to this thoughtful explorer, locals and visitors from afar can forever 'bear' witness to the lovely history of our ancestors!
When skies return blueand sun shows anew,after skies gone red and coldMy light I'll display,but do not delayI shutter as air turns gold.Consider this welland do not object:Not once but twiceyou must reflect.Only then can my truth be told.
K&K Apothecary
Ranya's House
Kestrel's Aerie
Seltspring Coast
Middle Tower
Waterfox Den
East Tower
Roshanara's House
The Great Shade
Restless Reach
Quickhoof Coast
Excavation Site
The Abandoned Tower
Old Lyndow
Lyndow
Nava
Howling Caverns
Vilmar's Arch
Tiffmoor Bluffs
Blackpaw Beach
Tiffmoor Gorge
Westspring Bluff
Sinkwood Inn
Sinkwood Falls
Mudwillow's Door
Mudwillow's Mirror
Tiffmoor Ruins
Tiem's Obelisk
Hidden Cove
West Tower
Sandysnout Beach
Toma's Farm
Anika's House
Seltspring Shipwreck
Greywing Cove
Onur's House
Abandoned Tower
Admission into Nava
Architect of Lyndow
Elixir of Life
Fabric
Toxic Tubers
Locked Box
Night Drummers
Return of Azad
Roots
Shez
Top Floor Pass
Nava
Old Lyndow
Lyndow
Farewell, Eastshade.
EASTSHADIAN BLACK THISTLE
Protected under the rule of the land.DO NOT PLUCK OR PULL.
Nessa's Balloon
Tiffmoor Bluffs
Westerly Woodlands
The Great Shade
Ocean's Last Breath
Restless Reach
Blushwood Forest
Paint Over
You have chosen to paint over one of your painting. Be sure this is what you want to do before proceeding with this painting.
The water is too deep to dismount.
Export Paintings
