@Gods Will Be Watching, Developer: Deconstructeam, Publisher: Devolver Digital, Juli 2014, PC/Mac/Linux/Android/iOS. 

@Chapter 1
There's an old saying: Kill one to warn a hundred.
Don't let the hostages get too friendly. They may seem innocent, but they'll try to put you down if they get too comfortable.
It's too risky to let the net security drop under 60%.
It's not safe to send two of them to the breakroom at once, they may hatch an escape plan.
Done. Enjoy the view, Abraham.
Sure. These bastards won't get in my system.
Fixed. I'm sorry Abraham, their tech guy is good. I need you to keep an eye on the security status for me.
Charging up! Remember, the Hack Boost is a risky maneuver. We should unleash it only when our odds of success are high enough!
The network isn't stable Abraham! We should fix it first!
The hacking system is ready!
Which camera should I rewire?
Focus on the hostages, but keep the security forces in mind.
With the Medusea virus in our grasp, we shall make the pillars of the Constellar Federation tremble!
Through all these years, you've been like a brother to me, Abraham. I want to see you alive when I step out of this thing, so don't screw this up.
Remember, we aren't terrorists here. Keep the casualties to a minimum.
Xenolifer owes you a lot, Abraham.
That was awesome!
Damn it, Shaman! Be careful, that shit hurts!
What's the matter, Abraham?
Your will, my gun.
Don't get too friendly with the hostages or we'll have to kill them when they try to take you down.
Don't worry, these security guards are no challenge for me.
I deserted the Constellar Federation so I wouldn't have to kill people anymore...
I've known him for 2 years now, but this 'Shaman' guy still gives me the creeps...
Damn it! I'll hold them back, Abraham!
Come on! Don't be greedy! Stay Back!
We got company!
Abraham! Damn it! Keep those hostages quiet!
I can't do this anymore. We've lost our way...
Ok, as you wish. We're all going to die now.
Guard: SURRENDER OR DIE!
Guard: WE'LL SPARE YOUR LEADER'S LIFE IF YOU FREE THE HOSTAGES.
Guard: YOU ARE DEAD, ALL OF YOU! NO ONE MESSES WITH THE HOLISTIC EMPIRE!
Guard: SHUT UP AND DROP YOUR WEAPONS!
Guard: Understood. You have temporary net immunity, don't harm our people.
Guard: You'll find 2 more flesh reparation kits in the first-aid supplier on the wall.
Guard: You chose the wrong nation to mess with!
Guard: YOU'LL NEVER LEAVE THIS PLACE ALIVE!
Guard: THIS IS IT, YOU'RE ALL GOING DOWN!
Please don't hurt me...
He's distracted...
I just need to...
I need to run.
I can't take it anymore.
ARGH! WE ARE GOING TO DIE!
Our database is too well protected
You won't get away with this!
Do you want to die!?
Don't force me to do this!
Abraham:Cooperate and you may live another day.
We'll do a trade for one of these filthy scientists' lives!
Ask for net stability
Ask them to go back
Ask for medicine
Please, let me go...
Send to break room
DON'T WASTE MY TIME, SCUM!
We have run out of flesh reparation kits.
Liam, the hostages are secured!
I just want to go home...
I respect your cause, but violence isn't the way.
Next time there's no need to hijack the ship, you could have just bribed me.
Don't kill me, please...
You know, you can release me in exchange for meds or net stability.
Please, don't hurt my crew! We don't have any access codes!
The Medusea virus isn't a toy for revolutionaries. It could mean the end of the human race!
If you have to take drastic measures, please, take me, not my crew.
The holistic empire is vast and powerful, you don't want them as enemies.
Our database is highly protected, this won't be as easy as you planned!
I should have studied economics...
I'm not afraid of dying, I'm just afraid of you ruining the world.
You remind me of my sister. When she couldn't get something, she would cry and hit me.
Even if you get the data, you won't leave here alive.
Leave me alone.
Do you like hurting other people?
Those guards are wearing some pretty thick armor. You're gonna need bigger guns.
Man, I could really use some time in the break room.
This wouldn’t have happened if we just went with an Open Source philosophy…
That Hack Boost program looks pretty powerful, focus on it instead of hurting us, man.
Don't you take another step or people will start dying in here!
Ok, take it easy! We're holding our position.
Liam, remind me how the hack boost system works.
Again? It's not that complicated, Abraham.
The Hack Boost is a powerful net hack tool, but it requires a great amount of preparation.
The more you charge it, the more successful it might be.
If you unleash a successful Hack Boost, the hacking progress will move forward considerably.
Gotcha
Good work guys!
Ladies and gentlemen! May I have your attention for a minute?
This siege is an act of Xenolifer!
You are being held as our guests while we retrieve your outstanding research data on the Medusea virus.
Seriously, good job analyzing that little bitch.
The revolution will greatly benefit from your contribution to the scientific community.
Now, let my friends do their work and I promise nothing will happen to you.
Jack! Don't let those damn guards get near us.
I got 'em, boss.
Shaman! Keep the network stable while I hack into their database.
I'm looking forward to seeing the power of your improved Hack Boost tool firsthand.
They won't see me coming.
And you, Abraham. You are in charge while I'm plugged into this thing.
Mind the hostages.
Don't let them get so comfortable that they think they can save themselves. Ignore them for too long though, and you'll have a revolt on your hands.
Don't scare them to the point of trying a suicide escape either.
While I'm plugged in, I'm counting on you to lead the team in their tasks.
Aid Jack with his negotiations while keeping an eye on Shaman's work and the network's status.
Basically, keep the situation under control until my hacking reaches 100% and our mission will be complete.
My pleasure.
And Abraham, don't hestitate to ask us anything. That won't take much time.
Xenolifer, let's do this.
Any advice on how to handle those guards?
That's simple: Don't let 'em reach the room or they'll put us down.
Shooting at them is a great way to push them back.
But the hostages will get anxious with a gunfight.
Negotiating is safer, but won't hold 'em for long.
Understood.
I noticed they have a Break Room here. We can use it to isolate one of the hostages.
Looks like a pretty comfortable place. It'll probably give them a chance to chill and calm down.
But don't let them get too comfortable or they will think of a plan to take you down.
OK.
Abraham! What are you doing?
Handling these schizo hostages isn't easy, OK!
Damn it, with just one hostage left, these guards won't hesitate.
We are running out of cards, so expect them to be far more aggressive.
Crap.
Yeah! I got the data! Good work guys!
YES!
Let's get out of here!
Abraham! Jack!
Drop your weapon!
Liam!
Get away! Lead the revolution!
Don't worry about us! We've been through worse!
I won't let you die here! I promise!
Whatever, just go!
NO! We lost connection!
It's sealed... and impossible to break into again.
Damn it, we are pathetic.
Abraham, this is getting out of control. What are we doing!? Is this even right?
Jack! WAKE UP! SHOOT OR WE'LL DIE!
I can't...
This is not the survivor I remember from the Legin desert!
This is not the time to second-guess me. Swallow your feelings and start shooting!
Ok, Sergeant. Fine, we'll do it your way.
You're right, Jack. I lost sight of our true ideals.
Let's keep the violence to a minimum, yes?
Yes, sir. There's the man I respect.
Initiating Hack Boost sequence. Are you ready, Liam?
Go for it.
Stabilizing network paths. Open the synaptic drivers.
Checked. Ready.
Hack Boost ready for launch, begin the countdown.
3. 2. 1. EXECUTE.
Liam, the hostages seem pretty unstable. Any advice on how to handle them?
Phew...that's a hard question. They do look fragile...
If they are getting anxious, talk to them to chill the mood.
But if you see them becoming too relaxed, a little bit of violence will put them in their place.
Easier said than done...
Keep in mind that you are dealing with a whole group.
If you calm one of them, the others will too.
The same goes with the violence.
Kicking one of them could be effective, but his partners will get scared too.
Also, I noticed that the bald guy is their boss.
It looks like they respect him. You can use that to your advantage.
Any action performed to him will surely affect the group in a greater way.
It sounds like you've done this before.
Ha ha. Let's just say I had too many little brothers.
Med Supplier: Let me see... remaining flesh reparation kits:

@Statistics Screen:
One year ago
YOU LOST ALL OF YOUR HOSTAGES.
THE SECURITY FORCES BURST INTO THE SCENE.
YOU LOST CONNECTION, THE DATA IS INACCESIBLE.
Your hacking progress was at -XX-%.
No one died under your surveillance.
You kept -XX- hostages alive.
You killed all the hostages.
Shaman lost -XX-% of data due to security leaks.
-XX-% of hacking progress was won through Hack Boost.
Your approach to the situation has been -XX-.

What is the difference between green actions and red actions?
Red actions will consume game time or resources.
Green actions are 'Free'.
That means time won't pass and nothing will change if you use them.
They are there to help or just for fun.
Interesting. Thank you.

@Chapter 2
This is Sgt. Burden communicating from within Xenolifer's Matriarch battleship.
Requesting an encrypted type-6 com relay to the Everdusk Company for the Universe Knowledge.
Superior: Sergeant! It's been 3 months since your last transmission!
Superior: The mission protocol dictates at least a report every 2 weeks!
Wasn't my choice, sir. There's been a lot of activity in Xenolifer recently.
Superior: Sergeant, our intel indicates that the Medusea virus has fallen into the hands of Xenolifer. What happened?
It hasn't yet, calm down.
Liam is planning to assault one of the Hollistic Empire's space labs.
The plan is to steal their research data about the Medusea Virus.
Superior: That is unacceptable, Burden. Xenolifer must not gain access to the Medusea virus. They've gone too far this time.
Sergeant, these are your new orders: Eliminate Liam Feronh-Gau and sabotage his plans.
Sir! Killing Xenolifer's leader isn't the solution. That course of action will blow up a three-year operation!
Jack and I have worked hard to earn Liam's trust.
Within a few months we could achieve a peaceful end to the Xenolifer organization.
Superior: Have you lost your mind, Sergeant?
Superior: We could never allow a terrorist organization access to a weapon of mass destruction!
Xenolifer aren't terrorists! They have ideals of revolution, but Liam isn't genocidal. I know him, sir.
Superior: Keep talking like that and we'll consider your loyalty compromised, Sergeant.
Superior: Xenolifer is the enemy and must be neutralized by any means necessary.
WE NEED MORE TIME!
Superior: Sergeant!
Listen to me.
I'll take responsibility for whatever action Xenolifer carries out with the Medusea virus.
If the time comes, my hand won't hesitate to put a bullet in Liam's head.
But killing Feronh-Gau will only unleash a war which will cost Everdusk resources and lives.
Trust me, I have this under control.
SHOWER TIME!
Sorry, did I wake you?
What's up? You look confused. Let us introduce ourselves.
My name is Irving, and the big boy with the funny helmet is Alexander.
He doesn't speak much. But he is a good fella.
That is, unless you piss him off. But that ain't gonna happen, am I right?
Cut the crap. What do you want?
Relax. You don't want to push things here, trust me.
My boss wants to know about you.
The usual drill, age, sex, location...
Oh, and also he wants to know what the fuck you were doing in our lab.
So anyway, first question.
Good morning.
Ready for your next session?
You know, this is a tough job. Torturing people.
I mean, I enjoy it, but it's harsh, ya know?
The most difficult part is when it becomes boring.
Let me tell you, designing fun torture routines is a pain in the ass.
It's like an old marriage, really.
You start thinking of new ways to surprise your little darling.
And without even noticing it, you end up dressed as a sailor with a strap-on banging at your back door.
You know, I've never been married, but Alexander was. You should listen to one of his ex's stories, man.
But hey, let's talk about you.
Welcome back to another day of the 'Disturbingly Pleasant Irving and Alexander show!'.
...
What's up Alexander? Don't look at me like that.
We already talked about this. 'Alexander and Irving's Show' doesn't sound as good.
Also, I'm the one who does all the talking so, I think it's fair.
...
Let's ask our guests. What do you think?
I think that 'Alexander and His Annoying Friend' would be a better title.
Ok, you're going to pay for that comment.
You may be thinking... How does somebody end up being a torturer?
And I don't like that question. It implies that being a torturer is bad.
But you know, torture is an art.
I descend from a proud legacy of professional torturers.
Torture is not plain violence. Sometimes it isn't even violent at all.
Animals don't practice torture. Torture was a craft invented by man.
A craft honed to perfection by countless guys like you and me.
Torture is an intimate matter between two people.
There's always a profound bond between the torturer and their victim.
Because, you know, I'll be the last friend you'll have in this life.
So, I recommend that you enjoy the ride.
Man, I had the weirdest dream last night.
Get this, everything was black and white.
Everything but the orange light of my cigarette.
Oh, and I wasn't blonde. Kinda lame, I was wearing a heavy metal t-shirt and had long hair.
I lived in a world made of concrete and got to see people with black bags over their heads everyday.
The best part is that Alexander didn't exist. No offense.
And I tortured every single one of those poor black bag heads.
Damn, It was fun.
But then one day, this strange hobo with a green-eyed gasmask showed up and said:
Your world was made in less than 72 hours
Hey! Snap out of it and start hitting us, please.
Man, how rude.
Did you have a good night?
You know, those wooden chairs are shit, sorry.
Not so long ago we had a pair of comfy armchairs.
But our boss told us we were spending too much time at the dry cleaner.
Now we just shoot some water on them and 'poof', done.
Alexander gave these babies some varnish recently.
So, try not to shit yourself too much.
We won't be feeding you in any case, so I guess it won't be a problem.
Anyway...
Doo-bi-doo, doo-bi-da, doo-bi-doooo-yeah...
Doo-bi baby doo-bye-ya!
Man! I've missed me some karaoke action.
Do you like karaoke?
Doo-bi-doo, rip-your-eyes, doo-bi-doooo-nice!
Doo-bi-you-will-die-here yeah!
Your turn!
Doo-bi-do, go fuck yourself, doo-bi-doo, you crazy son of a bitch.
Guy, I gotta tell you, you have a poor sense of rhythm.
Raise your hands if you want to be free!
Untie me and I will raise your teeth up to your brains.
Alexander! Seems like we have a mad dog on our hands here!
You want to play mad dog? Me too, let me give it a shot.
I WILL KILL YOU.
AND YOUR FRIENDS!
AND YOUR FAMILY!
AND YOUR PETS!
AND THEN I'LL BURN YOUR PETS' CLOTHES!
Bravo.
Did you know that Alexander loves hamsters?
How sweet.
He has an entire collection of legless, eyeless, toothless, hairless, brainless hamsters.
Not all at the same time, I mean, each one is customized with delicacy.
Actually, I kinda introduced him to the hobby.
I remember as a kid, a hamster was one of the best gifts no one ever gave me.
It really brought out my passion for torturing at an early age.
I'll never forget hairy Mr. Dimitri. What a lovely set of screams he had.
And you? When are you going to scream?
This isn't going to be easy, Irving. I think we have the strength of at least 10,000 hamsters.
Life at the Hollistic Empire has its ups and downs.
But I wouldn't change it for anything.
You know why?
Human rights.
The Hollistic Empire doesn't give a shit about fucking human rights.
You get what you deserve thanks to your own strengths. Fuck equality.
Anyway, this situation makes for a perfect scenario for my line of work.
But beyond that, this is why I won't change it for anything: The Hollistic Baseball League.
You can brawl, you can kill, you can take your glove and even smother a guy, hence it's a true sport!
You can even run with your bat and pummel your puny opponents into submission. It's so intense to see or play!
My favourite player, Ozy Aldozat, has a streak of 10 kills in 9 matches! 10 kills!
This whole 'Hollistic Empire' thing is pure crap, but I'd pay to watch one of those games.
Ha! I knew it! See, best sport ever!
It's a pity you'll never have the chance.
You know something I envy from free guys like you?
Not having to wear the same clothes everyday?
And Coffee!
For the Emperor's sake, how I fucking miss coffee.
It was prohibited seven years ago because our beloved Emperor thought that coffee encourages rebel thinking.
Sometimes I wish that the Emperor was down here with us, just so i could show him the many ways that I disagree with him.
...
Alexander, forget what you just heard.
But the thing is, rebel activity actually diminished
But so did our R&D departments.
I don't know why you were interested in the research of some coffee-less scientists.
Well, I should confess something to you then, Irving.
We weren't there for the coffee.
No shit.
I hope you don't think that violence is my only resource.
I'm not ashamed of hurting my guests, as I have acquired a great set of skills.
There was this cyborg guy we had to interrogate once.
He was a human once, but with so many implants he was more machine than man at that point.
The son of a bitch had the ability to disconnect his pain receivers at will.
And yeah, he could die just the same as everyone else. But it's difficult to make someone fear death if they can't feel shit.
Wanna know how I made him talk?
We became friends.
Yep, simple as that. Since pain wasn't going to do the job, I went with 'love'.
Ah...such good times.
We ended up talking about this and that, and bit-by-bit I got some useful information out of him.
Not enough to satisfy my boss.
But enough to capture the poor bastard's sister and tear her ribs out in front of the man.
Man, that was a masterpiece. Actual Cyborg tears.
The good old days. But let's focus on the task at hand.
Alexander STOP!
Look at what time it is!
We'll miss the Hollistic Baseball League!
Gentlemen, you'll have to excuse us.
I hope you enjoyed your first session.
It's been nice, Irving. Thank you for your time.
Ha.
This is going to be fun.
Good night, fellas!
Alexander, my back is killing me, let's call it a day.
See? I don't like it either, having to hurt you.
But hell, if you want to play the hero, it's my duty to beat the ever-living shit out of you.
I hope you understand.
You wanna sit? We can switch places whenever you want.
OH! No, no, no, please. What an awful host that would make me.
Rest yourselves, darlings.
Aaaaand...
END OF THE DAY!
Congratulations, you survived another day.
You won't give us a prize?
Of course. What do you want? The torture wall or the axe?
Forget it.
Bah, I've had enough.
Alexander, did you put those beers in the fridge?
I really could use one right about now.
Enjoy them.
Thanks, man. I'll bring you one if you survive for a month.
WAIT!
I FORGOT TO GET THE ICE CREAM OUT OF THE FRIDGE!
Goodbye idiots.
Come on Alexander!
Choke on it, asshole.
Well, you'll have to excuse us now.
We are meeting these two hot new trainees.
Oh! That reminds me that I'll probably kill you soon.
If the date goes smoothly, I'm gonna need that chained wall.
Damn, I have to take a shit.
Alexander, I told you we shouldn't have attended that Jalapeño party.
See you tomorrow, amigos.
You know what they say, 'Eat fire, shit tears'.
Alexander! It's time for our secret weapon!
Bring me the Red Blade Crabs!
No. Wait. We had them for dinner yesterday. Shit.
Sorry. Buzz killer. See you tomorrow.

@Abraham Burden & Jack
So... you think we've been through worse than this.
We're alive, aren't we?
For now, let's just focus on staying that way.
OK.
Until when?
I don't know, but as long as we're still breathing, we have a chance.
Don't do or say anything stupid, we have to choose our words wisely.
I don't care about giving up information about Xenolifer.
But as soon as this lunatic knows everything he wants, we're dead.
Yeah, sounds like a solid plan.
Shut up and get some rest. The worst is yet to come.
Why are all the torturers this psycho?
I don't think that empathy is a valued virtue for this line of work.
What if we just... die? I'm tired of fighting.
I'm sorry, Jack, but I need you alive.
I'll kill you when we escape if you want.
But I don't have a chance if I have to resist this mad man's wrath alone.
Tsk. Ok, but this is the last favor I do for you.
You know... I miss Everdusk headquarters.
Shhh! Don't even mention that name while we are in here.
Remember, whatever happens, never, never confess our true identities.
I know, I know! Cut me some slack, man.
I hope that Marvin is doing OK.
I miss that dog too. Best soldier I ever served with.
No offense.
None taken.
I think Alexander has muscles in places that shouldn't exist on a human being.
I'm starting to like my chair.
I wonder what that brute's face looks like?
Maybe he is a cutie under the hood.
Ugh, that would be even scarier...
They seem to do this a lot.
They even have a special room with a huge drainage trench in the floor.
I'm afraid of moving one of my chair's legs and falling over.
Hey! That sounds like an escape plan.
Don't.
OK...
Pizza...
Did you say something?
I'm starving...
You should try biting his fist next time. Meat is meat.
Have you noticed  you make a lot of jokes about cannibalism?
Wasn't a joke.
...
Sometimes I wonder what we're doing with our lives.
Yeah, these chairs make you wonder about a lot of things.
I mean, we've been with Xenolifer for three years now.
And of course, we didn't join them to 'defend' their cause.
But I ended up liking it.
Xenolifer are good people with good intentions.
But that's not the only thing that matters.
What do you mean?
It's all about their methods.
You may want to 'save the world,' but great ideals come with a big question: How much blood has to be spilled in order to succeed?
Where do you think Liam comes from? And why do you think he began this revolution?
He told me he was from a huge hive-tech planet. He was a 'speck of dust on a very dirty planet'. And he came to be some kind of rebel punk who led a big group of youngsters against the big corporations. That has nothing to do with Xenolifer's current cause, but I guess he always had an appetite for revolution.
He told you all of that? Wow, seems like you two got pretty close.
I'm a good listener.
Why do we choose this life of suffering? Why can't we just... live on a farm with warm sunsets and cool evenings. We'd harvest crops and be away from all of this.
We can. Well, we should. But I'll tell you something: I'm sure that even if we survive this, you'd go back to the action. And the fool that I am, I'd follow you.
Can't be helped, Jack.
We don't know shit about raising crops.
Are you alright, Burden?
Don't worry about me, save your strength.
How do you always stay so, 'cool'? It's like you were born to survive.
Are you trying to mend my wounds with sweet talk, Jack?
I'm not the only one who's got this far. Consider yourself a true survivor, too, Corporal.
Ha! Now, that's a good pep talk!
Shut up and rest
I'm afraid of the wall...
Is that some kind of metaphor?
No, man. The fucking wall with chains in front of me.
It's hard spending all night looking at that shit and imagining myself hanging on it.
I'm more afraid of the axe.
What do you prefer, this or surviving in the desert?
Can we just keep focused on nice memories?
Ok, tell me about your mother.
Sorry, did I touch a nerve?
No, it's just that I don't remember anything from my childhood.
Ok, so tell me about your first love.
I think it would be better to focus on the future, OK?
Don't you ever miss having a family?
I'm not that kind of man.
Fighting for Constellar Federation, E.C.U.K., Xenolifer...
That's more than a decade of fighting. Don't you think we've done enough for this universe?
You're right, you should retire to a nice place once we get out of this mess.
Yeah, but what about you?
I just don't see myself on a couch.
LIAM!!!!
Sorry I'm so late. You didn't think Xenolifer would let you down, now did you?
Thanks to the gods! Get us out of here!
I'm sorry, but that's not a good idea.
What? No shit!
We are in a prison located on one of the wandering moons of the Hollistic Empire.
This giant rock is too heavily guarded for a prison break. It's a miracle I got this far.
I don't think we can make it together. Hell, even I don't know if I can make it back alone.
Well, then grab a chair and take a seat.
What's the plan? I know you have one, Liam.
Heh, you're correct. I may be a suicidal hero, but I'm not a suicidal idiot.
Xenolifer is preparing a rescue operation.
It isn't going to be easy, but nothing withstands a clever plan.
Right. What do you need us to do?
I need you to endure 20 more days of torture.
WHAT!?
You know, clever plans usually aren't the quickest.
But that's why I'm here, to help you in that matter.
I already located a nursery above this floor. I can sneak in and steal medication for you.
Medicine can restore your health so you can endure longer.
Painkillers will allow  you to resist more pain, so that bastard's torture methods won't be as effective.
But you won't recover as fast as usual from your injuries.
Or if you prefer, I can gather information to help you deal with your torturers.
It's easier to lie if you know what your captor is interested in.
You are a smart man, Abraham. You can survive this and more.
Hooray.
Abraham...
Will you marry me?
Shut up and kiss me.
Good news! I received an encrypted message from our guys and they say they'll be here sooner than we thought!
YES! Good work guys!
They'll be here in just 19 days.
...
A day is a day, isn't it? Thanks, Liam.
You look like shit. Don't you die on me, damn it.
Don't worry. Abraham here won't let me die.
Good, you need to support each other. Teamwork will make the torture a lot easier to withstand.
If I bit the dust, he'd have to face all the violence alone.
Well, any motivation is good considering the circumstances.
Heh.
Sorry, for the delay. Are you ok?
As long as you don't get caught we might stand a chance.
Nice. They won't catch me, I promise.
Hi, guys.
Any news?
Nothing of interest.
Well, I heard that Alexander's mother was a half-breed offspring from a Jorghal titan.
Is that even possible?
YES.
Trust me, this guy's strength isn't human.
Sorry to hear that.
I found a library. Do you want me to get you something to read?
Oh, yes. Fuck meds. Let's fight them with culture.
Okay, I see you're not in the mood for humor.
How are you holding up?
Well, we're alive, but we'll need a vacation after this.
Sure, you can take a free day.
That's generous.
Xenolifer's motto: 'Freedom for all intelligent beings. Fuck my employees'.
You should have read the fine print.
Can I offer you guys a massage or something?
No, stop. I'm sick of people touching me.
Ok, but that was a limited time offer.
I can't think of another situation that would justify me giving a pair of sweaty fellas massages.
Here he is, my favorite blonde.
I thought I was your favorite blonde.
Don't fight because of me. You two are my favorite hostages about to be free.
Man, I spent the day hidden in an airway, watching Hollistic Baseball matches.
That shit is sick, but pretty rad.
You should try to get some tickets for when we get out.
You can count on me.
Why do you always get in through the ceiling but leave through the door?
I don't have a way to climb back up.
You could steal a rope.
Good idea. Next time I'll look for a rope instead of meds.

...Jack?
He's gone.
FUCK!
Damn it... I'm so sorry, Abraham.
Don't be sorry. He died for a cause. There's no better death than that.
That's bullshit. There's no good death.
And his blood is on me now. I should have listened to you and aborted the space lab hijack.
Hey, what did you expect when you started a revolution?
Great change always comes with blood.
Enough, Abraham. I didn't come here for a pep talk.
Let's focus on getting you out of here alive.
Are you OK?
It's harder now that I'm alone, but I'll survive.
We'll avenge Jack, I promise.
Don't let revenge fill your thoughts.
I need you focused on getting us out of here.
That's the best way of honoring Jack's sacrifice.
OK, Abraham.
Is everything alright?
Yes...
How can you be so calm after Jack's death?
I saw a lot of death during my Constellar Federation days.
And I've seen too many friends consumed by the sorrow.
On the battlefield, emotions are a quick route to death.
I'll mourn Jack with a drink when we get back, but not now. I owe that to him.
You are one tough son of a bitch, Abraham.
I have great plans for when we get back.
Save them for yourself. I don't need to know what other ways you plan to get us killed.
I was just trying to get you to think about something else besides your current situation.
Abraham...
Skip to the part where you ask me what I want.
...
Xenolifer will make the Hollistic Empire pay.
I don't blame them, we were the ones that hijacked their space lab.
But...
You're a good man, Liam. Focus on your cause.
You're right, but I should at least give them a present.
I feel like I'm starting to loose my mind, Liam.
Come on Abraham, you are already halfway, you can do it.
I can still hear Jack's voice.
Everything will be better once we get you out of here.
Were you talking alone?
I don't know.
Shit.
You and Jack knew each other before joining Xenolifer.
You never told me that story.
Yes, I did.
Man, go easy on me here, I'm doing my best.
You want me to try to kill Irving?
Don't. Even if you succeed, we'd never escape the building.
Yeah, but...
Focus, Liam! Stick with the plan! Don't lose your cool now!
Ok, ok, you're right.
Hang in there, friends.
Don't worry, we'll be around.
If you survive this, beers will be on me for the next month.
I had planned on dying, but that's good motivation, indeed.
Don't push him too hard.
Yeah, poor Irving.
I'm leaving now. No one is going to walk me to the door?
I'm getting sick of this dumb blonde's bullshit.
Done.
See you tomorrow!
Did you know the guys on the Matriarch talk of you as heroes?
Save the pep talk for them and get us out of here.
Stay alive.
Thanks for the advice.
I'm sure he has some kind of interrogation pattern. All these psychopaths do.
I wish I had multiple lives to find out what his pattern is.
Resist.
You can do it, Abraham.
Don't you die, too.
Not only for Jack, but for me. For Xenolifer.
Sure.
...
I won't lose another friend here.
Endure. Please.
You are the strongest man I know, Abraham.
You'll survive this.
We're a day closer to freedom.
Sleep well, pal.
Do you like games?
I'm really into gambling games myself.
Are you familiar with the old gunpowder weapons?
Well, this is a 7-barreled lucky revolver.
It's been in my family for centuries.
Old fellas from Earth had a game called 'Russian Roulette'.
I don't know what 'russian' means, must be the guy who invented it.
Doesn't matter. What does matter is what happens when I slide one bullet inside the barrel.
Point this baby at your face and ask you a question.
If I like what you're saying, I won't pull the trigger.
Either way, you'll be in the hands of lady luck.
Are you ready?
I'm sorry guys, but this is when we get serious.
If you don't tell me what I want, I'm going to cut your friend's arm off. It's as simple as that.
AAAAAAAAAAAARRRGGHH!!!!
Are you sure your shitty terrorist secrets are worth an arm?!
I'll let you rest, but you'd better start preparing a good confession for tomorrow.
Because tomorrow, I'm gonna be working on your eyes.
Hey, pussy! Get up!
Burden?
Answer me Burden!
BURDEN!
BURDEEEEEEEEEEEEEEN!!!
Well, shit happens.
Shit!
Fuck, I killed him!
The boss won't like this.
But what the hell, he deserved it.
We'll tell him it was you. OK, Alexander?
Thank you, buddy. You're the best friend a torturer could ever have.

Now he's dead! Are you happy?
Jack!
...shit.
What's up with you? I'd think you'd cry more, scream, or at least threaten me. This is a new one.
Oh, I see. You didn't like him.
...
Or you are just a psychopath.
...
Come on! It's not funny if you don't care!
I don't know what you were expecting, he died on a mission.
We are professionals. I won't waste his sacrifice with a crappy lament.
So, get your shit together and ask me the next question.
...
I'm not in the mood right now.
You think you are a smart ass, but I will make you feel sorry.
I will make you cry, soldier.
You'll need more than a ridiculous set of jokes then.
...

Nice! See? It wasn't so hard!
I'm starting to feel a little intimate with you now.
But I'm sorry, we can't be friends.
Alexander!
We don't need them anymore. Kill them and call the cleaners!
No! Wait!
Goodbye!

Come on, hit me, blondie!
What's wrong? Are you done talking?
Why the hell are you wearing sunglasses in a basement?
Come on, weakling, unleash the fun.
My grandchildren are going to love this story.
A little bitch like you won't get much from us.
Don't waste our time and start beating us.
Get started. I'm falling asleep here.

Please, stop or I'll die...
I don't think I can resist much longer.
If you don't stop you'll have to interrogate a corpse.
Don't rush it, We have all the time in the world.
Irving, you're close to killing me...

So, you got tired from your job at the circus?
Did you dress yourself or did Irving pick your pants for you?
Come on, give it to me, baby.
Don't be shy now, show me what those big ape hands can do.
How many hours did you spend at the gym?
Do you take off that ridiculous helmet before going to sleep?
Are you trying to bore me to death?

Please, stop or I'll die...
I don't think I can resist much longer.
If you don't stop you'll have to interrogate a corpse.
Don't rush it, We have all the time in the world.
Don't do it, big boy, you're close to killing me.

Who are you?
My name is Irving McAllister. See? It's not that complicated. So...
Tell me your names.
I want to know exactly who I'm dealing with.
Come on, be polite and tell me who you are.

I am Abraham Burden, my partner is Jack Maslow, we are ex-soldiers from the Constellar Federation.
I am Jack Maslow, he is Abraham Burden. We served at the Constellar Federation long time ago.
My name is Samuel Kinneas, and he is Orson Blomkvitch. We were rebels from the Legin desert.
I am Sweet Chili and my partner is Killer Sushi. We are professional sugar wrestlers.
I am a clone of a legendary soldier, and my partner is the same, but his experiment failed.
We are nobody. You are just hallucinating, Irving. Wake up. WAKE UP!
You are Abraham Burden and Jack Maslow. Old dogs from the Constellar Federation.

The Hollistic Empire's enemies usually use Legin as their hideout.
Who do you work for?
Tell me about your organization.
Not many people dare to challenge the Hollistic Empire. So, where are you idiots from?
You should be proud of your actions. Just recover the little pride you have left and tell me your faction's name.
Come on, at least tell me the name of your pseudo-terrorist cell.

We work for Xenolifer, enemies of the Constellar Federation.
We are Xenolifer. We are revolutionaries and liberators.
We are just people oppressed by the Hollistic Empire. We are the Resistance and we'll overthrow your Empire.
We are just journalists. We were looking for 'compromising' photos of the emperor.
We are professional actors, that thing back on your space lab was just a performance.
You passed the test Irving. We are special agents from the Hollistic Empire. You can set us free now.

You are members of Xenolifer, terrorists who hide behind revolutionary ideas.
They seem to be pretty paranoid about rebels and resistance initiatives.
Who is your boss?
Tell me everything about your leader.
Who is your leader and what is he planning?
Your leader's name is something like 'Crappy Rebel', right? Correct me if I'm wrong.
So, what's your leader's name? It's just a name, it won't hurt anybody but you.

His name is Liam Feronh-Gau. It means liberator in the Op'mahun tongue.
Our leader is Liam Feronh-Gau. Knowing his name won't help you take him down.
Our leader is Brian Kernsmith, also known as the 'Empire Destroyer'.
We follow the command of Big Alexander. I'm sorry Alex, had to confess...
Our leader is a righteous one, an invisible being that rules over joy and sorrow...He's even watching you right now.
We are freelance cyborgs, we follow whoever has the control circuit.

Your leader is Liam Ferohn-Gau, king of pussies.
You recall the Kernsmith bandit family, don't you? Well, the Hollistic Empire put a bounty on their heads.
What were you looking for at our lab?
What did you steal from our database?
Why are you interested in our research?
You should respect the privacy of others. What do you want from us?
Tell me about what you found in our lab.

We stole your research about the Medusea virus.
Our leader wanted to know how to control the Medusea virus.
We wanted to steal all the intel we could from the Hollistic Empire. Information is power.
We were trying to delete an embarrassing mail we sent you while we were drunk.
We installed a worm to spy in on all of your conversations. You know all those 'toys' you buy for Alexander? Yeah, we know too.
Computers are a mystery. Is it on? Is it off? Is this thing in daylight? is this at night?

You fools were trying to understand the deadly Medusea virus.
They started an internal investigation looking for any data leaks on their servers.
What do you plan to do with the intel you stole from our database?
Why does your organization need our intel?
You won't steal a car. You won't kill a baby. Piracy is a crime. Confess your plans.
So, what would some lousy rebels like you do with our precious data?
Tell me, why did you risk your lives to steal this information?

This won't hurt your empire. We wanted to blackmail the Constellar Federation.
We'll use the data as a weapon to blackmail the government of the Constellar Federation.
We wanted to fund our cause by selling classified information.
We are writing a novel about dictatorships, we were just doing some research.
We are huge fans of the Hollistic Empire. We wanted to print some photos of your leader for our base.
It's nothing personal. My partner here challenged me to do something stupid. So we did.

You say you wanted to blackmail those pigs from the Constellar Federation.
Some of the Hollistic Empire's enemies have a market where mercenaries sell information.
How did you manage to enter our space lab?
Is there some kind of secret entrance to our space lab that I'm not aware of?
How did you sneak into the lab?
Seriously, it's a space lab! How did you get in without being noticed?
Can you travel through space and solid metal walls?

We bought some cargo access codes on the black market. I'm sorry, but there are a lot of people willing to sell you out.
We bought some cargo access codes on the black market. Your 'Empire' is not as safe as you believe.
Our hacker guy obliterated the system controlling your emergency exits in a matter of minutes. You should work on that.
Some idiot left the door open. Oops, someone is gonna be fired.
I have a cousin working for the Hollistic Empire.
We heard it was the lab chief's birthday and hid inside a big cake. You should have seen the scientists' faces.

The little rats that you are, you bought the cargo access codes on the black market.
They're investigating if their emergency exits have any security failures.
Where are your headquarters?
I can't imagine where idiots like you would hide.
In a forest? An abandoned prison? Come on! Tell me where you're all hiding!
You'll have to sell your people out sooner or later. Tell me where they are and I'll stop the suffering.
Seriously, do you even have a headquarters?

We handle our operations from our mothership. Undefeated for 7 years. So don't even try.
You won't find us. Our base is located on a gigantic spaceship that is in constant movement.
We hide on a deep cave located on the planet of Sineicos. Its hostile environment keeps us safe from most governments.
We have an office in the city. Why don't you come by and say 'hi' sometime?
We come from another dimension. Now, surrender.
Our team operates in the biggest, most epic tree house in the universe.

You live on board a spaceship, always on the run. That's how cowards roll, I guess.
They have a lot of information about the planet, Sineicos. I think they are searching for rebel activities there.
What is your cause?
What do you fight for?
Confess your ideals. You don't have to hide your convictions.
Is it freedom? It has to be freedom, you look like a couple of Empire haters.
At least tell me your purposes in life? Come on!

We fight for freedom and equality for all intelligent beings. Especially oppressed alien races.
We are part of a movement for freedom for all intelligent alien races.
We plan to eradicate the few space dictatorships left. Your days are numbered.
We want to establish the largest fast food intergalactic franchise.
We want to create a world free from giants with bike helmets.
I didn't know I had to have a reason to blow up shit and hijack space labs.

You are a pair of cute boys who fight for oppressed alien races' rights.
Space dictatorships have their days numbered. The Hollistic Empire is one of the only three remaining. Scare them with that.

We found Sergeant Burden!
Positive ID on Corporal Jack Maslow.
There's a third unidentified subject.
What should we do?
Leave him.
Your top priority is to get the Sergeant out of there.
Understood.
Moving back to the E.C.U.K. headquarters!

We found Sergeant Burden!
There's no trace of Corporal Jack Maslow.
There's a third unidentified subject.
What should we do?
Leave him.
Your top priority is to get the Sergeant out of there.
Understood.
Moving back to the E.C.U.K. headquarters!

ou confessed too much. Irving got rid of you.
BURDEN IS DEAD.

Let's reset the fun... for 1 out of -XX- chances of headshot.
For 1 out of -XX- chances of boom.
Showtime...

Trust me. You don't want to do this.
That won't work. Now, answer.
That was funny.
You don't want to try and be funny today.

It makes sense... doesn't it? I don't know, next question.
Interesting. So...
But there are still things that bug me...

What should I bring you tomorrow?
OK, I got you some useful intel.
Here you are... Painkillers will let you endure more pain.
This medicine will mend your flesh, you'll feel a lot better.
Your attitude has been -XX-. -XX- = Suicidal/Smart/Cowardly
Burden endured -XX- points of damage.
Jack endured -XX- points of damage.
You confessed -XX- times.
Your favourite request was -XX-. -XX- = Painkillers, Medicine, Information

HEY, ARE YOU DEAF?
Perhaps you aren't familiar with the concept of 'torture'.
Ok, ok. We have plenty of time. Breath...
Gotcha.
Sergeant Burden?

The Matriarch-N-Xenolifer's Mothership-N-3 days before the space lab data hijacking.
Welcome back, Sgt Burden.
Allow me to say on ECUK's behalf, we're glad you came back in one piece.
But it's time to get back to work.
Your failure in infiltrating Xenolifer's ranks and sabotaging their goals has changed the rules of the game.
This has left us vulnerable. Xenolifer can now potentially commit a biological attack using the Medusea virus at anytime.
But, sir...
Don't. Don't even start.
Listening to your excuses is what put us in this situation to begin with.
We have to be ready to fight any biological threat, that's your main and only objective now, Sergeant.
Is that clear?
Yes, sir.
On your next mission you'll have to spend several months on the surface of Sineicos.
If you read the mission briefing, you'll know that Sineicos is the home world of the Medusea virus.
You'll be leading an Everdusk Science team whilst occupying the planet. Your mission won't be complete until you find a cure for the Medusea virus.
Sounds more like a punishment to me...
Do you have a problem with your assignment, Corporal Maslow?
Two soldiers to look after 3 scientists and a robot? Please...
That's enough, Jack.
Sorry, sir. Proceed.
I see that you have already met your team. Let me introduce them to you.
Sarah Gaynor, specialist in psychiatrics and brain genetics.
After all we've heard, it's a pleasure to meet the legend at last, Sergeant.
Dr. Paul Zenész, expert in bacteriology, bionics and former chief of the Counter-Viral department of the Constellar Federation.
Nice to meet you, gentlemen. Our job at Sineicos is just as important as fighting terrorists. Don't undermine this mission by taking it as a 'punishment'.
They won't, Doctor.
Donald Gaynor, specialist in robotics and electro-mechanics.
I'll be in charge of the maintenance of our ship and equipment.
Also, as I told the commander earlier, I'm bringing with us this experimental robot model I've named BR4N-D0N.
...'Experimental' in what way?
Well... it's a discarded project of the Constellar Federation. Essentially, BR4ND-0N is an empathic droid.
He was designed to analyze human emotions and status to try and please its owner and guests.
The project was deemed a failure though, since after a couple of years the empathic module became overwritten with its owner's personality.
And the droid suffered an 'existential' crisis with, well... undesired consequences.
How...useful.
This model has been customized by me, personally. By formatting its brain once a year, I promise you BR4ND-0N is totally safe!
Also, it's not for pleasure.
When requested, he'll give us various readings of our performance, moods, and morale throughout a mission and can help us notably improve our productivity.
Quite freaky, in my opinion.
I'm sad to hear that, but I'll do my best, sir.
Come on, Sarge, don't be mean to him. You may end up liking him!
Gentlemen, you'll have time to talk about personal details on the ship to Sineicos.
Dismissed.
Wait a second.
What about the dog?
...'What about the dog!?'
Fucking Doctor. 'It's not wise to have a dog inside a lab'.
My ass.
This damn dog has served the Everdusk better than most of the soldiers on this ship!
Knock it off, Jack. Dr. Zenész only wants the best for the mission.
He'll end up liking Marvin. Everybody does.
Can I ask you something, Burden?
I'm always afraid of what follows when you ask that, but shoot.
Did you really expect to dismantle Xenolifer peacefully?
Man, I don't know. Liam is a good guy, though. Maybe I don't agree with his methods, but I respect his cause.
In any case, it was worth trying. E.C.U.K. orders or not, it would have been a waste of a bullet to shoot such a brave man.
I thought we joined E.C.U.K. so we wouldn't have to solve all of our problems by killing people.
I thought you joined the Everdusk because the Constellar Federation put a price on your head.
Ha, ha. Yeah, and also that.
Well, I liked Xenolifer too, but ultimately they're terrorists in the end.
In the eyes of the Constellar Federation, yes.
For me, the Federation seems a much greater threat than Xenolifer.
At least Xenolifer fight for freedom and equality.
It's history that'll put a label on Liam. For me, he's a hero.
You really liked that blonde punk, don't you?
Well, the Fed forced us to kill people, and when I wanted to stop they hunted me.
Liam risked his ass to get us out of that torture facility.
That settled whatever reservations I had toward him, personally.
What do you think of the team we have here?
Besides the Doctor not liking Marvin.
They seem nice enough, very professional and focused on the mission.
Sarah is a cutie, it's a pity she's married to that engineer.
So, yes, I like them. Being stuck on this rock is going to be boring as hell, though.
After three years in Xenolifer and surviving that mad man's torture, I thought you'd enjoy a vacation.
A vacation needs sun, beer and hotties.
Sineicios is just a giant, ice-ridden prison with a deadly airborne virus spreading across its surface.
Man, I missed Marvin during all those years undercover.
He missed you too, Sarge.

Launch again
Back to work

And then she said: 'I thought it was a mercurial snake!'.
Man, you are sick.
Welcome back, gentlemen.
How's the research going, doc?
Excellent! Sarah and I detected what causes paralysis within the Medusea virus.
It attacks the muscles with a parasitarian live net.
But also freezes the user, inducing a chemical coma.
It then keeps the vital functions running to create a perfect environment for spores to start growing in the victim's body.
Sarah and I reduced the amount of possible compounds to five, so we are pretty close to finding a cure.
We'll probably be able to leave Sinecios in a couple of months.
A couple of months? Oh, man...
Cheer up, Jack. The estimated completion of this project was set at a year and half.
What!? I have to start reading the mission briefings, I would have deserted if I knew that.

Hello everybody!
Abraham! Man, how are you?
...Or should I call you, Sergeant Burden?
Liam...
Don't worry, man. You had a job to do, no hard feelings.
I'm glad you made it out of the Hollisitc Empire prison, after all.
You and your team will come in handy right now for Xenolifer.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe I heard you say you're researching a cure for the Medusea virus?
Cut the crap, Liam! What do you want?
How rude, Jack. After all we've been through I hoped you'd be glad to see me.
To answer your question though, I want you to give us the cure for the Medusea virus and I want it now.
Excuse us, Mr. Liam, but we are far from discovering one at this point.
There's still a lot of work to do.
Oh, that's too bad, especially since I'm in a little bit of a rush right now.
Fine, I'll tell you what: Discover a cure by tomorrow and you won't die.
What?! That's impossible!
Don't underestimate yourself, lady. The threat of death can be a wonderful motivator. What's that they say? 'Necessity is the mother of invention', no?
Shaman can provide that motivation. Shaman?
Indeed, C4 has been motivating humanity for centuries.
Fuck you and your ancestors, Shaman!
Jack, calm down. Liam, listen to me.
You're a reasonable man, I'm sure we can find a peaceful resolution here.
Oh, no, no, no... You won't talk your way out of this, Sergeant.
I know you, Burden, you can survive this just like everything else. After all, you're a legend, aren't you?
Time to prove it.
Fuck! Fucking Xenolifer! Fuck!
Oh my gods. We are going to die, aren't we?
This can't be happening...
Everybody calm down. Liam is not an assassin. He wouldn't kill us for mere revenge.
Tell me you're not defending that son of a bitch!
Don't loose your cool, Jack. If he wanted us dead, we'd be dead.
We better start working fast and smart.
Doctor, how much time do we have?
Based on our research so far...
That's plenty of time. BR4ND-ON, how much debris do we have blocking the exit?
...
Ok, that's a lot of work, but if we cooperate we can dig all that shit out in time.
You forget the fact that we are all infected, even if we get out we'll be dead.
Understood. Your mission then is to find a cure in less than 48 hours.
That's impossible!
Doctor?
Well, there are some lines that can be crossed in order to speed up the investigation.
Cross them.
What do you mean, doctor?
Human experimentation.
Are you insane?! Are we just going to blindly shoot random compounds into ourselves?!
Well, we can choose between a certain death or a possible death. I don't know about you, but I'll take my chances.
Sounds like a plan.
OK! Listen everybody! Start digging and follow the doctor's instructions!
We have to avoid overworking ourselves. In this situation, being well-rested is just as important as working.
I think Sarah and I can produce some synthetic accelerants through the use of the chemical computer.
Adrenaline will speed up work, and sedatives can help you rest better.
There are some drawbacks, Doctor. Adrenaline will make you feel pretty tired after a while due to overworking.
And sedatives will leave a person knocked out for a good bit of time, but it's a good way to recover faster.
Right. In any case, we should work mainly on developing an antidote.
What steps should we follow, Doctor?
Step one: Produce an antidote
Step Two: Inject it into someone.
Step Three: Pray.
Finally, Step Four: If the subject endures the shot, we analyze their blood and see what went right and what went wrong.
Then repeat.
I'm a little lost.
Don't worry, focus on leading the team. If you want to know more about any aspect of the research just ask me.
OK.
Since time is crucial, we should work in spans of 30 minutes.
Use the clock on the right top corner of the computer to begin work sessions.
After every 30-minutes of work, we can reassess the situation.
OK, Everdusk team! let's...
Wait a second.
What?
The power supply seems to have been damaged.
We can't let the battery drop below zero or we're screwed.
And how the hell do we avoid that?
Sir, I volunteer myself to connect the broken power supply.
Donald, is it safe?
Well, BR4ND-0N is tough as hell. It might actually work.
And I can do maintenance on him so he doesn't get toasted.
Or you can sacrifice me and leave me as a permanent connection so power won't be a problem anymore.
No way.
I need you digging as much as everyone else.
Yes, sir.
OK! Everdusk team!
OH!
...sigh. Yes, doctor?
Sorry. Just wanted to remind you that what we found in research prior...
If any of us experience paralysis, we can fight it with a temporary jolt of electricity.
That's why the defibrillator unit is here.
I can do the preparations. We can have up to three charges on standby for use.
And in the meantime, you get to skip digging, don't you?
Those are the benefits of having a wider set of skills other than just shooting things.
Hey! That's enough.
OK. Everyone knows what they have to do. Everdusk Team!
Burden!
WHAT!?
Just kidding. Go ahead.
...
I give up. Everybody do your best. Our lives are riding on this.
Everdusk team! Let's do this!
Fuck! Fucking Xenolifer! Fuck!
Pull yourself together! This time we're going to make it!
What do you mean, 'this time'?
I don't know, let's just work.
We have 48 hours, lets start digging the six tons of debris out now.
Meanwhile, the Doctor and Sarah will produce experimental antidotes to test on us.
You have your orders! Everdusk team, let's...
Wait!
Don't worry about the power supply, we can handle that with BR4ND-0N. Just make sure he doesn't get toasted.
Also, prepare some defibrillator charges in case any of us get paralized.
Everdusk team! Let's do this!
YES, SIR!
Doctor, is it safe to use adrenaline to boost our performance?
Considering the situation we're in, it's perfectly safe. Sometimes it may not be the wisest course of action.
Adrenaline will increase your performance by about 60-70%.
But in an hour or two, the sensation of physical stress will return.
And your performance will drop rapidly.
It's a powerful tool in this case, but you'll have to use it strategically.
Understood, Thanks, Doc.
Doc, how can a sedative help us in this situation?
The priority here is work.
Sedatives might appear to work against us in this instance, but overworking is just as bad as not working at all.
Resting is as crucial as any other task here. Sedatives can help speed up recovery.
The sedated subject's performance will hit rock bottom, but after an hour they'll be refreshed and ready to work again.
I see. Great, thanks.
What's the difference between a risky antidote and a safe one?
Well, basically the difference is in the time we spend developing it.
The more time spent applying various security protocols that would lead to a safer antitdote, the longer it'll take to produce.
On the other hand, we can speed up research by making a few shots in the dark and educated guesses, hoping that nothing goes wrong along the way.
Safer antitdotes will be easier to endure for the subject.
Riskier antidotes will more likely cause death.
But if we can discover the right compounds for the cure, even lethal antidotes would be harmless.
So, if you know for sure the solution for the antidote, go ahead with quick research.
In any case, the decision is yours. Evaluate the risk and make decisions. Isn't that your specialty, Sergeant?
Heh...
OH! And another important thing you should know about.
People with a higher body mass can endure the experimental antidotes better than others.
In case you're interested, here are the team's weights:
Donald:101Kg-N-Jack:87Kg-N-Doctor:75Kg-N-Sarah:49Kg-N-Marvin:44Kg
And what about me?
I don't know. The E.C.U.K didn't give me any medical records on you, sergeant.
They said it was classified.
I see...
All of these compounds seem pretty complicated.
Yes, it is a complicated science.
But putting the theory of chemical computating aside, it's all quite simple.
We know the medusea virus is weak against certain compounds.
However, we haven't discovered the virus' molecular structure yet.
The only thing we do know is that the virus doesn't have any repeated compounds in its structure.
So for example, a 'beta-beta-beta' case isn't possible.
Neither is an 'omega-delta-delta' combination. Do you understand?
urhh... yeah, I think so.
To put it another way, just don't repeat compounds. A correct compound sequence would be 'alpha-beta-lambda'.
Any advice on how to handle the team's performance?
Just don't push them too hard.
Remember that you can check everybody's current performance with BR4ND-0N's empathy sensors.
Also, it would be a good idea to plan resting periods along with antidote testing.
The antitdote leaves you unconcious anyway, so...
Now we're on the same page, doc.
So, I guess corpses are useful for science.
Definitely. It's not pleasant, but it would be silly to just let a corpse go untouched given our current predicament.
Knowing what went wrong with the dead will help the living survive.
The more we understand about the Medusea virus and its effects, the faster our research will progress and the better our chances of survival.
OK.
Doctor, tell me again what the procedure is for creating a cure?
Step one: Produce an antidote
Step Two: Inject it into someone.
Step Three: Pray.
Finally, Step Four: If the subject endures the shot, we analyze their blood and see what went right and what went wrong.
Then repeat.
Gotcha.
Finally! We cleared the exit!
We just need to find the cure and we're good to go.
Eureka! We discovered the cure!
Incredible work, Doctor. We owe you our lives.
You owe me nothing if you don't clear the debris in time.
Even with the antidote, the extreme exposure to the Medusea virus is incurable.
So get us out of here!
My pleasure.
Unbelievable! We discovered the cure!
Amazing work, Sarah! We're saved.
I'm afraid it'll be worthless if we don't leave this cave in time.
The creation of the antidote will be in vain if we can't get away from the Medusea Virus' reach.
Understood. We'll focus on the digging now.
Yes! We got it right!
Now to the second phase.
Great!
Wait, what do you mean... 'second phase'?
See, the Medusea virus attacks the brain and the muscles.
We've solved the muscular paralysis, but there's still the psychological effect.
That's why Sarah is part of this mission, that's her speciality.
Ugh, right. Whatever, let's get back to work everyone.
Yeah! This is the right one!
Awesome! Congratulations.
Now all we need to do is find the compounds for the second structure.
Wait, I thought this would save us?
I'm sorry, Sergeant. The Medusea virus attacks the brain and the muscles.
We just found a cure for the phsysical paralysis, but there's still the mental effect.
The virus' psychological effects are my speciality. That's why I came in the first place.
Yeah, great. Listen, it's good to have you here, but please, next time you scream 'Eureka!' make sure this is the final one.
Mmm... Should I feel something?
You don't feel anything? Seriously? You should be falling unconcious any second now.
Mmm... nope. Sorry doc, I don't feel anything. You probably did something wrong.
That's completely impossible! I'm 100% sure this antidote would have knocked out an elephant!
Well, the fact of the matter is that I don't feel anything.
Sergeant, if that's true, you can't be human.
I disagree with your conclusion, doc, but it's an interesting point. Right now we need to focus on researching a cure. We can deal with me being a medical 'anomaly' when we get back to base.
In the meantime, don't waste anymore antidotes on me.
I don't feel anything.
What? How? You should be falling asleep any second now.
Mmm... Nope, nothing. Sorry, but I don't feel anything. You must have done something wrong.
That's completely impossible! I'm positive this antidote would have knocked out a rhino!
Well, the fact of the matter is that I don't feel anything.
If what you're saying is true, Sergeant, I can't see how you're human.
I'm going to have to disagree with you there, Sarah. You bring up an interesting point, but right now we need to focus on researching a cure. We can deal with me being a medical 'anomaly' when we get back to base.
Just don't waste anymore antidotes on me.
Fuck the gods, we really did it.
Let's get out of here.

@BR4N-DON:
Talk
Dig
Charge Defibrillator
Connect Power Lines
Request Information...
What can I do for you, sir?
Debris and Performance
Dig Power
Body Mass
Rest
Thank you for having me on your team, sir.

@Burden:
Dig
Inject...
Rest
Talk
Use Computer...
Ask about...

@Doc:
Yes, Sergeant?
Adrenaline
Sedatives
Antidote Risk
Compounds
Team Performance
Research Steps
Autopsy
Inject...
Analyze Blood
Rest
As terrible as our situation here is, I am a little excited for the scientific opportunties we might uncover.

@Donald:
Talk
Dig
Charge Defibrillator
Repair BR4ND-0N
Inject...
Analyze Blood
Rest
I don't want to die here, Burden! I need to believe the legends about you are true!

@Jack:
Talk
Dig
Inject...
Analyze Blood
Rest
You should update your resume and put 'specialist on fucked up situations'.

@Dog Marvin:
Dig
Inject...
Analyze Blood
Rest

@Sarah:
Talk
Use Computer...
Inject...
Analyze Blood
Rest
I didn't join the ECUK for this kind of stress! This is your fault, Burden.

Stop Working...
If no one is working on a project, we'll lose our progress.
Abandon project
Keep working
I should focus on the project.
Clock
Work for 30 minutes
Cancel
Computer
Research Antidote
Produce Sedative
Produce Adrenaline
Inventory
Autopsy
Defibrillate
Diagnosis
Adrenaline Shot
Don't.
Our mission is to protect the team, not engage in direct combat.
I'm so happy to see you again, Sergeant.
What are you doing, Liam? Is this your twisted notion of revenge?
If that's what you want, you'll end it faster by just executing me. These people don't have anything to do with Xenolifer.
Yeah, you'd love that, wouldn't you?
I'm sorry but revenge is not what I'm after.
What I am really after is the cure to the Medusea Virus.
That thing about leaving your team isolated with the virus?
Well, that was a gamble. I have my own research team, you know.
But I could never apply these 'conditions' to them, if you know what I mean.
Anyway, all's well that ends well, no?
I never imagined you would be this kind of son a bitch, Liam.
Oh, It doesn't feel good being on the other side now, huh?
No one likes being Xenolifer's enemy. But you two made your choices.
Enjoy defending oppression and slavery.
We have to go now. And we can't take any risks of letting you follow us or alerting the Constellar Federation so...
Farewell, Abraham.
I'm so happy to see you again, Sergeant.
What are you doing Liam? Is this your twisted notion of revenge?
If that's what you want, you'll end it faster by just executing me. These people don't have anything to do with Xenolifer.
Yeah, you'd love that, wouldn't you?
I'm sorry but revenge is not what I'm after.
What I am really after is the cure to the Medusea Virus.
That thing about leaving your team isolated with the virus?
Well, that was a gamble. I have my own research team, you know.
But I could never apply these 'conditions' on them, if you know what I mean.
Anyway, all's well that ends well, no?
...
Oh, It doesn't feel good being on the other side now, huh?
No one likes being Xenolifer's enemy. But you two made your choices.
Enjoy defending oppression and slavery.
We have to go now. And we cannot take risks letting you follow us or alerting the Constellar Federation so...
Farewell, Abraham.
What are you doing!?
If you leave us here, we'll die!
Please, you know I'm not an assassin.
It's just that if you get off this planet, I'm sure you'd further complicate my plans.
Don't worry, I'm sure you'll find a way to survive. You may even end up liking your retirement here if you give it a chance.
When everybody has a task, use the clock on the right-top corner of the computer to start a work session.

@Lost Cause
Damn, without a doctor on the team we're doomed. We'd be better off commiting suicide before succumbing to the Medusea virus
ALL THE TEAM DOCTORS DIED.
Shit, I can barely feel my arms now. The doctor was right, time's up. There's no hope...
YOU RAN OUT OF TIME. THE INFECTION BECAME INCURABLE.
WITHOUT POWER, RESEARCH FOR THE ANTIDOTE IS OVER.
We'll be dead in about -XX- hours.

-XX- Kg exactly, sir.
Dig Group
Research complete!
Shit, it got me...
I feel pretty rested...
I'm exhausted...
Waiting for command
Current projects
Analyzing
Shit, power went out. We are really screwed now.
Good boy!
The defibrillator is at its maximum capacity.
The debris has been cleared already!
The doctor and our engineer can't do that right now...
We don't have any defibrillator charges ready.
Adrenaline (-XX- left)
Sedative (-XX- left)
Antidote
Easy! One shot at a time!
I am pretty busy right now. I need to focus on the research.
I'm really busy at the moment. I need to focus on our research.
We don't have any doctors avalaible right now.
We don't have any substances to inject.
OK. Time for a shot.
First you need to inject me with some experimental antidote, right?
My exposure to the antidote was interrupted, I believe my blood isn't valid for testing.
-XX- Adrenaline doses
-XX- Sedative doses
Initializing compound setting sequence...
Let me help you with that research.
I can't. BRAND-0N seems quite busy right now.
Debris: -XX- Kg left
TEAM PERFORMANCE:
UNKNOWN
CURRENT DIG POWER:
We don't have any doctors conscious at the moment and diagnosis isn't my speciality.
Mmm... chances of death:
Looks like he's doing fine. Should wake up in about -XX- minutes.
We don't have any adrenaline shots left
One autopsy at a time. Let's show some respect for them.
Wh-What happened? Am I alive?
Oh, so that's why it failed... shit. Knowing that now, our research will progress -XX-% faster.
Lethal
Dangerous
Risky
Unstable
Cautious
Safe
Choose risk level
chance of death
Cancel
Closing compound setting application...
Set compound number -XX-
Setting new project...
Research Nature:
Risk of death:
Compound setting:
Reading substance structure...
Medusea antidote effectiveness:
-XX- compound reacts correctly.
-XX- compound seems to work, but it is misplaced.
-XX- compound present is incorrect
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Unbelievable, we discoverd the cure!
Blood analysis complete.
Woah... that felt... nice.
Holy shit! Let's party!
Digged -XX-Kg. of debris.
Your mission failed in -XX- hours.
Doctors didn't discover the antidote.
Doctors reached the second phase of research.
Doctors found the cure!
No one was sacrificed.
-XX- team lives were sacrificed for the mission.
Produced -XX- Adrenaline, -YY- Sedatives and -ZZ- antidotes.
Time
Left
Battery
What? Jack?
I thought I'd miss my arm when that psycho cut it off.
But now I understand why there're people who sacrifice a limb just to get one of this awesome bionics!
It's not very popular with the ladies, though.
But for a soldier, I couldn't dream of a better implant!
You should totally give it a try.
No, thanks. I like to be popular among girls.
You? Ha! Don't make me laugh. I've never even seen you looking at a single woman...
So, you keep track of who I'm looking at?
Oh, fuck off.

@Demo
Welcome, player
I'm glad you came to see what Gods Will Be Watching is about.
This may look like a peaceful picnic.
But it's not.
A BBQ without beer is half a BBQ.
Jack!
Ok, I'm sorry, go on.
The thing is, this game has a super epic sci-fi plot with interstellar espionage and other good stuff...
But we don't want to spoil anything, so I'll tell you just what you need to enjoy this demonstration.
We are fucked up. We are lost on a hostile planet, cold as hell, and surrounded by wild predators.
We're short on food...
And a deadly alien virus called 'Medusea' is in the air
a virus which will paralyze and kill us within three days if I don't prepare enough medicine.
On top of that, my team has suffered through a lot getting here. Some bad people put us into this situation and our morale is fragile.
If we lose our sanity, this camp will destroy itself.
And if I don't repair the radio in less than 23 days, we'll be stuck on this planet forever.
You think this is bad? Well, I have worse news:"
It's your job to save everybody.
I'm glad you could join us. I'm Sgt Burden, and remember...
Fuck.
Fuck. Fuck.
Fucking Xenolifer.
Fuck them.
You should have let me kill him, Burden.
Liam's death achieves nothing. We have to be better than revenge.
Achieves nothing?
Oh man, I think everybody would be a lot happier if that bastard was dead right about now.
The soldier has a point there, Burden.
Agreed.
I swore to save every life, but I can think of a lot of uses for Liam's corpse right now...
...
OK, people. If rage keeps you alive, that's fine with me.
But we have to focus on getting off this planet.
Donald, do you think that broken radio will do the job?
It's going to be hard, but I think BR4ND-0N and I can fix it in time.
If I remember correctly, emergency protocols dictate that an orbital convoy will cross this radio's frequency radius every 14 months.
FOURTEEN MONTHS!?
Easy there. Based on my calculations the orbital convoy will be within reach in the next -XX- days. If we can get a signal out before then, there's a chance we can be saved!
It sounds good, but if we don't manage to repair the radio in time, we'll be stuck here for a year...
Sounds doable. We can do this, team.
If hunger doesn't kill us first...
Or we become infected by the Medusea virus...
Or break down under the pressure...
Or before we're hunted down by wild predators.
...
We're on the verge here, Sarge. Madness is our worst enemy in this situation.
With so few chances to survive, it's hard to maintain hope.
You have to give us a reason to keep going.
Talking to any of us will consume valuable daylight we could be using to work.
But morale may be more important than food or ammo in this situation.
I don't think our chances are that low. Don't worry Sarah, I'll do my best.
You know how to treat a lady, Burden.
Ha. Comes with the job, I guess.
The team really looks up to you, Burden.
If you choose your words wisely, you can ease our fears, especially at night when all of our nightmares rear their heads.
A dinner pep talk is always a great way to boost morale.
But understand, these pep talks are a double-edged sword.
You don't want to expose undiscovered fears.
For example, if no one passed away recently, it's not a good idea to talk about death...
I see...
So, if I make a speech about repairing the radio...
Ha, ha. Donald will be very motivated and you'll boost his morale considerably.
Gotcha.
For the likes of us human beings, Sineicos is not a lush or rich planet full of useful resources.
Shit, the mere existence of the Medusea virus is a clear example of how this gods-forsaken rock is a death trap for our kind.
Hunting will be difficult and expensive. A cooked meal will become a thing of privilege.
If we want to escape this frozen prison, we have to be ready to face hunger straight on.
I know you can do this and more, team.
Tonight, fill your stomachs with the desire for freedom.
It worked for Jack and me back in the torture chamber of the Hollistic Empire.
We are no tougher than you, believe me. Not when it's about something as primitive as starving.
We'll face this together and we will overcome it. Harden your will and I promise you,  you'll live to see the better days that are to come.
We need to stick together.
We are a machine.
A machine which can provide us food, warmth, health and safety.
But most of all, we are a machine which can provide us freedom. A future.
But I need all the pieces working at their best.
If you give me that, no one will be left behind.
If you can give me that, I can guarantee you we will get off this planet.
I know your biggest concern right now is if you're going to survive this planet.
If you're going to return to the peace of your homes.
Enjoy the taste of your liquors, watch your favourite shows, see your friends again.
It'll even be a good time to pay a visit to your relatives. Enjoy the thought of that second chance, relish in it.
But you know what?
None of that will matter if we don't stop Xenolifer.
We all know what the Medusea virus is capable of. Imagine if that toxin spread all over our homelands.
We don't know what Xenolifer's plans are.
But even if there's the slightest chance of our homelands being endangered, that's reason enough to survive, to fight.
We are going to get off this planet and stop them because we're the only ones who can.
Because it's our duty.
Because we have the cure for the Medusea virus!
So you all have a choice: You can be a forgotten corpse and let our beloved civilization tremble at the threat of the Medusea Virus.
Or we can stay alive and become heroes - saviours.
Death.
It never gets easier.
I've seen a lot of friends and comrades fall.
Some sacrificed by my own hand in the past.
But life always finds its path.
And We, the ones who stay alive, are in charge of not letting our partners' death go to waste, to be in vain.
We must honor their sacrifices. We must respect the high cost they paid.
From my bitter experience, death always leads to life.
That's the way the Gods designed this game we are playing.
Survive. Respect death. Accept its gift and carry on.
But don't do it for yourself, do it for the friends who gifted us with their passing.
We are food.
Just the same as the meat we consume every day.
Just the same as the weaker species that are now becoming our meals.
Like them, we are being hunted.
But I got news for you. We are the strongest predator here.
Let them try and hunt us. They won't find an easy meal here.
They will find bullets, fire and soldiers.
So let them have it.
Let them learn what we humans are made of.
We feel safe having trained soldiers in the camp.
Having doctors around gives us comfort. We know who to rely on if we need help.
But do you know what the most important thing is out here?
That fucking radio.
Because doctors, and us, soldiers, We can keep this camp alive.
But our only way out of here is in that broken fucking toaster.
So let's fix it and go back to our homelands in one piece.
I shouldn't have brought Marvin to Sineicos...
Marvin is a soldier like us. His place was on this mission.
We have to honor his sacrifice and remember him.
Poor Marvin, to die like this...
I'm sorry, Jack. We'll miss him.
I lost a lot of friends during the war, but for some reason, I wasn't prepared to lose Marvin...
Live like a soldier, die like one. We have to survive, Jack.
And I thought this was going to be a boring mission...
Damn it, Liam. I'll make you pay for this!
Those bastards are sneaky. But I think I wounded two of them.
If we defend ourselves with spears, we'll conserve more ammo when they come for us.
I should have taken better care of Marvin.
He didn't need to die...
Maybe his fate was to die here so we can endure...
At least he died with us on a mission.
Damn...why is this affecting me so deeply?
We could have probably avoided this if someone had managed the camp better.
But there's no point in pointing fingers...
Death, nature's own terror...
The life of a doctor is always closely linked to death but this is on another level...
Famine, cold, madness, even Medusea...
...but predators? Seriously? Are the Gods up there making fun of us?
I joined Everdusk for a little thrill and new scientific challenges.
But I'll ask for a pay raise if we have to fight wild predators...
Oh gods... why Donald, why...
He joined Everdusk just to make me happy. This is my fault...
We may survive this, but I don't know if I will be able to face life without Donald...
Death can be contagious. We're highly exposed to each other's temperament, here.
We should stay positive to improve our odds of survival.
Why? why? why!? Leave us alone! Damn beasts...
Please, gods, don't let those predators come near us again...
Is this planet trying to kill us with every foul thing it can throw at us?
We survived a deadly alien virus and now we are in danger of being eaten alive.
Donald and I were married for 9 years...
We always shared a passion for science, we joined Everdusk so we could explore new boundaries together.
And now he's dead...
Donald...
If you have to take any drastic measures, just kill me next.
I'd rather you survive since you still have a reason to live...
He was harmless... Such a brilliant and innocent mind.
He wasn't meant to die like this, fucking Xenolifer, I hope they all die!
You have to promise me, Burden...
When we get off this planet you'll find Liam and kill him.
We have to destroy Xenolifer.
Sarah... why? why... I can't live without her...
My love...how could I let this happen?
I love her so much...Damn this planet.
This whole Everdusk thing. Fuck it. Fuck everything.
Fuck you Burden. I hate you.
Kill me now and make a feast of my body.
You won't be hungry for a month, damn it.
Kill my fat ass and let me be with her again...
Please, don't let anyone else die...
Why is this happening to us, why do we have to die like this?
Oh my god.. I can't do this. We're all going to die.
Don't let anyone else die Sergeant... do your damn job.
I'll never have a decent nights sleep for the rest of my life.
Those animals, they're like ghosts. I haven't managed to clearly make one out yet.
She was always so optimistic...
She truly believed in you, Burden. And you let her die...
My little blonde... You didn't deserve any of this...
I should have forced her to stay out of this Everdusk mad house.
Sarah... I failed you...
Do you think we'll live, Sergeant?
I'm going to abandon Everdusk after this...
Me and Sarah... shouldn't be here in the first place...
Let's start working.
Days on Sineicos are short and this part of the planet only gets about 5 hours of light before sunset.
So...if I manage the team's time well, we'll be able to perform five tasks a day.
Conversations are time-consuming, so let's focus on the tasks at hand.
I don't think that's a good idea.
You should really make talking with us a high priority.
We are already on the edge because of Xenolifer's attack.
So some 'military attitude' won't work here, Sergeant.
Ok, ok... I'll look after your delicate morale.
Anyway, days are still short so always keep that in mind. You can only perform five tasks a day.
Don't waste more time, let's survive, team.
Thank you for having me on your team, sir.
Request Information
Repair Radio
Destroy

@Doctor:
We are highly exposed to the Medusea virus here. Remember to always keep an eye on everyone, if someone becomes paralyzed they'll die in 3 days.
Our research has proved that a person's physiology will freeze when infected with the Medusea virus, with the victim having no sense of hunger or feeling.
This is an everlasting cigarrette, it's harmless but tastes like the ones from the good old days,
The corpses from the Medusea victims are highly contagious. We should burn them if the time comes.
Talk
Prepare Medicine
Kill

@Engineer:
I can work on the radio, but I think it will take about 20 days to get it fixed.
I bet you're glad I brought BR4ND-0N to the mission now, huh?
Sarah and I have been married for 9 years now, she's great. She'll surely help us get through this.
If you have to make any hard decisions, take me before her, please. BR4ND-0N can continue my work without me.
Talk
Repair Radio
Kill

@Jack:
Don't understimate hunger. Keep the camp provided with food and we will be able to fight any threat.
Marvin is an excellent hunter, but there's nothing like a good ol' rifle. Anyways, I love this dog.
There are too many of us to feed. Our provisions won't last long...
Keep an eye on the ammo stock, it's not only valuable for getting food, but also to defend ourselves.
I'm starting to think that you are the cause of all my problems, Sergeant. Heh, if only I didn't owe you my life...
Talk
Rifle Hunt (90% chance, costs 1-3 bullets)
Make Spear
Hunt with Spear (75% Chance)
Kill

@Dog Marvin:
woof!
Pet
Hunt (60% chance)
Kill

@Sarah:
We trust you, sarge. The morale is crucial in this situation. Try to keep the mood of the team up by talking to us.
If someone in the group dies, moral will fall drastically. Some of us will be more affected than others depending on who dies.
Donald isn't very charismatic, but he has a very kind heart.
This book I'm reading talks about a boy who freed old Earth using an old computer. It's called 'The Legend of the Keymasher'.
Talk
Prepare Pep Talk (1/2 day)...
Which topic should we focus on?
Hunger
Teamwork
Saving the world
Death
Wild predators
Repair the radio
Ask about...
Let me give you some advice on how to deal with morale.
Crew members Morale
Pep Talks
Kill

Add Wood
Shoot Wood
Cook
Get Wood
Cure
Kill

Day is about to end. Sun is too low, insuficient cell power supply detected.
For the gods sake! We did it! We are saved!
We did it! We fought them off. We wasted -XX- bullets and -YY- spears. They stole -ZZ- rations of food. But we won! Let's focus on recovering morale now.
Poor Marvin... We haven't been feeding him and he ran away. I'm sorry...
-XX- succumbed to the medusea. Her body was too infected and I had to incinerate the corpse during the night.
-XX- succumbed to the medusea. His body was too infected and I had to incinerate the corpse during the night.
-XX- broke down and ran into the woods. We probably won't be seeing her again. I'm sorry.
-XX- broke down and ran into the woods. We probably won't be seeing him again. I'm sorry.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH AMMO TO FIGHT THE PREDATORS. EVERYBODY DIED.
Radio reparation: -XX- %
Food: -XX- rations
Cooked meals: -XX-
Wood: -XX- logs
Antidotes: -XX-
Ammo: -XX- bullets
Spears: -XX-
DON'T FORGET THE CAMPFIRE. EVERYBODY FROZE DURING THE NIGHT.
SGT BURDEN FAILED HIS TEAM AND COMMITED SUICIDE.

OK, dinner time. Let's split the food.
Raw Meat
Cooked Meal
Nothing
Ration for -XX-... We have -YY- raw meat left.
Ration for -XX-... We have -YY- raw meat and -ZZ- cooked meals left.
Hang in there, guys, we'll do this.

Should I give a pep talk tonight?
Hunger
Teamwork
Saving the world
Death
Wild predators
Repairing the radio

Just Eat...
Maybe one of us should spend the night working...
Don't worry, sarge, compared to Irving's torture this is child's play.
The human body can survive plenty of days without eating. We can make it through this.
OK. But I'm going to eat tons of ice cream when we get back.
I guess I could use some dieting...
We have a lot of food right now, Burden. Don't jinx it.
That wasn't the best time for that, Sarge.
I don't want to starve... don't let the food run out...
You know you can count on me, Sarge.
Totally agree. Teamwork is what human prosperity is all about.
That's the spirit, Burden! I'm glad to have you as a leader.
We are well-prepared, Everdusk team. We can do this.
You have my unconditional support, Sarge.
I thought teamwork wasn't about letting partners die...
Fuck teamwork, we are screwed...
SIR, YES, SIR!
Saving the world is harder with an empty stomach, Burden...
We gave those terrorists the tools. It's our responsibility to stop them.
Ideals won't feed us, Sergeant. First we need to eat.
I've never been a huge fan of things like 'duty' and 'honor'... but you had a point there.
I don't give a shit about the universe. I want to eat...
Wow, I feel important now. We can do this, guys.
Give me food and then we can talk about saving whatever... asshole.
None of this is getting any easier, but you can count on me, Sarge.
As a doctor, I know death and its inevitability. Dealing with it will always make us stronger.
You are right... we have to live, we owe him that much...
You are right... we have to live, we owe them that much...
Sarah... No one will forget your sacrifice...
No one will forget Sineicos, the memories of the lost will endure.
I don't think it's a good time to talk about death, sarge...
We should stay positive...Don't bring up that topic if no one died recently, please...
Thinking about death won't help morale here...
Yeah! They know where to find us now! Come and get another taste, you bastards!
Indeed, we are superior. We should be ok.
I don't like being exposed to a fight, but I'm happy to have brave soldiers protecting us.
That's for sure. We can outsmart them easily.
Huh... I'll be ready to fight whenever they come.
We've been peaceful lately, no need to provoke them...
Please... I don't want to face any predators...
Yeah, sure.
A true instrument of hope, that radio.
Come on Donald, you can do this!
YES! I will save you all! Trust me!!
...not a good start, losing our Engineer.
Oh... Donald... why...
...the radio... is already repaired, Burden.
...he's gone nuts.
...Burden?
Thanks for the encouragement, but yeah, it's fixed already.
Hunt with Rifle
Hunt with Spear
Doctor: Prepare Meds
Donald: Repair the Radio
BR4ND-0N: Repair the Radio
Everybody rest
I wasted -XX- bullets and failed. I'm so sorry...
I got us -XX- rations of food and spent -YY- bullets.
I got us -XX- rations of food. But I lost my spear.
I got us -XX- rations of food.
I failed in hunting, I'm so sorry...
I failed in hunting, I'm so sorry... And I lost my spear.
I prepared an antidote during the night, Sergeant.
I worked on the radio last night. We're closer to being saved now.
YOU HAVEN'T REPAIRED THE RADIO IN TIME. YOU ARE FOREVER LOST.
You repaired the radio.
Radio reparation was at -XX-%.
You didn't kill anybody.
You shot -XX- partners.
You gave -XX- pep talks and ordered -YY- night shifts.
You had -XX- rations of food and -YY- bullets left.
flawless
unwise
foolish
abusive
cruel
careless
you attitude has been -XX-.
I wasted -XX- bullets and I failed, I'm so sorry...
I got us -XX- rations of food and spent -YY- bullets.
I failed, I'm so sorry...
I failed, I'm so sorry... And I lost my spear.
I got us -XX- rations of food.
I got us -XX- rations of food. But I lost my spear.
Weapons are ready to hunt or defend the camp, Sarge!
I won't let the team down.
Ok, Burden. It was costful, but it'll be worth it. Thank you for taking the time to prepare a pep talk.
Done. I managed to produce one antidote.
Yes! We have 2 more antidotes.
OK... There's still a lot of work to do...
This thing is beginning to look more like a radio.
We're halfway there. Maybe there's hope for us after all.
Almost done! We have to survive...
The radio is fixed! Now we have a chance!
Radio reparation progress increased in -XX-%
Good news, sir. The radio is fixed.
We don't have any spears, Burden.
We don't have enough ammo, Burden. We could make more by destroying BR4ND-0N.
We don't have enough ammo, Burden.
I need wood to make a spear.
The radio is already repaired, Sergeant!
Marvin wasn't able to catch any animals.
Marvin hunted -XX- rations of food!
We must put these -XX- rations of food to good use.
Pull yourself together! -XX-'s death will allow us all to live!
BR4ND-0N's pieces will keep us alive. His dismantling has given us -XX- extra rounds of ammo.
Good news! I prepared -XX- delicious meals.
I got -XX- wood logs.
We don't have any ammo left... Killing a partner with my bare hands is way too much for the team's morale..
Busy...
Wha-what happened? I was infected? Shit... Thanks.
Fuck. We don't have any antidotes left...
Write these words down exactly as I say...
There's no time left for that today, Sergeant. We need at least half a day.
We don't have any wood...
First I need to put some wood on the campfire.
We ran out of ammo... And the wood is too moist to catch fire. I can't light this log with my bare hands.
We don't have any raw meat left.
I can't cook without a fire.
We need wood to prepare the meat
This is the current morale readings of the team, sir:
Error
Burden... I'm losing my mind... I need to eat.
Ok, sir. I got this.
I don't see why I have to do this at night but... OK.
Oh, shit... OK, I'll do my best in these poor lighting conditions.
BRAND-0N's autonomy system got pretty fucked up from messing with the cave computer. Now he can barely work with Sineicos' solar power.
We are doing OK, but we should rest while we can.
Right click to try again
Jack?
Sarah?
Doctor?
Donald?
What the...
...Marvin?
Campfire

It's great to have you all back.
Sorry there's no time to rest but the situation is critical.
Xenolifer?
Yes.
What the hell are those assholes after now?
Genocide.
What?
Liam... It can't be possible.
Stop worshiping that terrorist, Sergeant.
They made it clear in their demands:
The Constellar Federation must abolish alien slavery or...
They will unleash the Medusea virus across the entirety of Gactus VII.
But... Gactus VII is one of the planets with the highest rate of slaves over humans.
What do they want to do, free them by killing them?
Not at all. They were after the Medusea virus from the beginning since it only affects mammals.
Their objective is to create a free world for aliens, making a planet uninhabitable for human beings.
Ok, this should be easy then:
We destroy Xenolifer's mothership. Problem solved.
Those demands were made a week ago.
The Constellar Federation refuses to negotiate with terrorists.
And the medusea virus became airborne 37 hours ago.
There's no need to panic, here. I know the cure, we can produce an antidote now.
I'm afraid it's not that easy.
Xenolifer developed a genetically encrypted mutation of the virus.
Xeno-Medusea, they call it. And only they have the antidote.
How many people are at risk?
...
Four billion.
DAMN IT, LIAM!
...
They're still open to negotiate.
If the Constellar Federation accepts their demands, Xenolifer will launch the antidote into Gactus VII's atmosphere.
No, they won't accept.
The Constellar Federation never negotiates.
For them, Gactus VII is just another piece on their board.
I bet anything they'll even use the tragedy as propaganda.
So... that's it, I guess.
We aren't superhuman, Burden. There's nothing else we can do.
We should get some rest and focus on how to stop Xenolifer in the future.
No.
I'll go.
I'm gonna stop them.
...Why do I feel like they've already died?
I need a vacation...
You are insane.
Let me go with you, Burden.
No, not this time. This a one man mission.
You'll only slow me down.
This is suicide!
You should have gotten used to suicide missions by now, Jack.
I'm finishing the calculations now...
You should collide with Xenolifer's mothership in 2 hours and 29 minutes.
I don't have exact data on the integrity of the Matriarch's hull, but...
You have approximately a 32% chance of surviving the crash.
Burden, are you sure you still want to proceed?
32%? That's a gift from the gods in the face of saving 4 billions lives.
So, let me get this straight:
You're gonna fire yourself out into space, piloting a one-man cruiser headed toward the Matriarch.
Aiming directly at the core labs of the ship.
Retrieve the antidote, and then manually fire it into Gactus VII's atmosphere?
Exactly.
And you're saying this isn't a suicide mission?
Yes.
What about being inside a collapsing spaceship surrounded by enemy forces?
I'll figure it out.
Thank you for everything, Burden. We owe you our lives.
Through all the pain, suffering, and success, it's been an honor, Sergeant.
Woof!
Ok, BR4ND-0N, say goodbye to everybody, you're going with the Sergeant.
My AI module will allow me to commandeer the droid-rocket, allowing me to disperse the antidote's reactive agents over the planet's atmosphere.
That means I won't come back. 100% sure.
I am so glad I can be of service until the end.
Goodbye, everybody.
OK. You're ready to go.
Burden, while BR4ND-0N is connected to your spacesuit, he can provide useful intel during the mission.
At this point, you should at least feel sorry for doubting him all those months ago before Sineicos.
Gods, Donald, you are a rancorous nerd.
Just try to come back alive to honor BR4ND-0N's heroic sacrifice.
Heh. Sure.
Sergeant.
Go and kick some Xenolifer ass.
Goodbye, team.
We'll meet again, in this life or the next.
BR4ND-0N, are you seeing this?
...
Outer space.
An endless sea of scattered dust in a vast veil of darkness.
I don't know why, but this cold void...
...feels like home.
It's hard not to feel completely insignificant in the face of all this.. darkness.
Have you ever considered your purpose, BR4ND-0N? What it means to exist in this vast darkness?
Out here, it makes you wonder what four billion lives really mean...
...Just another white dot...
...one of a million pinpricks of light, each one indifferent to its inhabitants...
...millions of points of light, so far in the future that they have already died.
Why did I spend my whole life protecting them?
What am I protecting, exactly?
I spent my whole life fighting, and I don't even know why.
In fact, I can't remember anything beyond fighting.
I never had a home.
We aren't so different, you and I, BR4ND-0N.
You and I are the same... I too have never known childhood
It's like I've only existed to save the world. Again, and again.
Not for duty, respect for life or any human values.
I'm like Marvin-  just can't stop chasing after that damn stick.
This cause is the only thing that's ever felt true.
And as long as the gods keeps tossing that stick, I'll keep bringing it back...
...This meaningless world.
Freeze!
Identify yourself!
Where am I? What is this place?
...
Are you wearing an Everdusk spacesuit?
Yeah... the nebula...
I had an accident?
I don't know, sir. You're on the desert planet of Legin in the middle of a war.
We fight for the Constellar Federation, of course.
I see... How can I help?
Sir...you just survived what should have been a fatal orbital shipwreck and you're telling me you're ready for action?
I heard Everdusk was full of puny nerds...by the gods was I wrong..
Is there a point to all this, soldier?
Your insignia denotes Sergeant, sir. So technically, you're in command.
And frankly, if your space suit's transceiver still works you could save us all.
Save you, how? How many of you are there?
...this is embarrassing, but our platoon got lost in the desert and the rendezvous deadline is...
OK, let's join your platoon and hurry our way back.
Sir!
Sir, what is your name?
Can't remember...just call me Sergeant for now.
Who's this?
Sir, I found him while I was exploring the area.
He's a Sergeant with Everdusk, sir. Miraculously, he survived an air-to-surface orbital shipwreck.
He's offered his help...and the fact is we could make good use of his spacesuit's transceiver. It's still functional, sir.
Is that true, Sergeant?
Just point me in a direction and I'll do my best to lead you there.
This might be a sign of the Gods, I thought we were damned to this place already...
I'm Sgt Abraham. It'll be a pleasure to follow your lead, Sergeant...
Just Sergeant.
Hmm, very well. To where, then?
Understood. Let's move. We'll rest when the sun is down.
That could be a problem, Sergeant.
The only time the deserts of Legin know darkness are when the sandstorms block out the sun.
Excuse me?
He's saying that Legin has no night. The two suns keep this planet as deserted as it can get.
Corporal Maslow was born here. The nomadic children of Legin are tough as hell, so you'd be wise to listen to his advice.
Our best option is to use as little water as possible. We should only drink when our bodies are crying for it.
Sleeping under the sun is suicide. If we want to rest, we'll have to look for shelters behind cool shadows.
Oh, and there's also the fact that we're currently engaged in a full-fledge retreat from a war that we cannot win.
We should watch out for rebel patrols and enemy camps.
Any blind step will be a gamble. If we enter an enemy camp unprepared, we're done.
That's where our scouts can explore the terrain ahead for us.
But time is of the essence, always keep that in mind.
And what about your leg?
Yeah, those bastards took it away from me.
And the desert sand is making it look ugly...
If you feel you need to make any sacrifices, I give you full authority to do so- starting with me.
Sir! What the hell? We don't even know this guy!
Shut up and respect your commanding officer, Private. We may be marooned on this desert, but we are still going to follow the chain of command.
You can count on me, Sergeant. Both of you can.
This desert won't forgive any missteps and friendships won't save anyone out here.
So man up, and let's move.
Any advice on desert combat, Corporal?
Sure. Legin deserts are vast and it's almost impossible to hide anywhere.
So, if we walk unexpectedly into an engagement, open conflict will cost us lives, no doubt about it.
Not to mention that if we walk into an enemy camp without preparation, we're fucked.
The wisest option is to scout the terrain first.
As a group, we can be easily spotted...
But a single scout can sneak his way through enemy lines and come back with a sitrep.
If we know what's ahead, planning the best course of action will increase our chances of victory
Just choose one of us to lead the attack and we'll tell you about our chances of success depending on the men you want to use.
Also, explosives will notably boost our firepower, but they are rare around here. You should only use them when necessary.
Thank you, Corporal.
Also, remember that fighting consumes a lot of stamina, so don't send the whole crew just to overpower the enemy.
Ok, I got it.
What can you tell me about enemy camps?
Walking into one unprepared is unmitigated suicide.
And their fortified structures make them hard to conquer.
But if we manage to overtake one, an enemy camp will provide us ammo, water, and shelter.
Maybe even Explosives or Stimulants.
They can be a huge challenge, but will come with high reward should we succeed. Keep that in mind.
Why are we so short on ammo?
We've been lost for 2 weeks now, sir.
There was originally 30 soldiers in this platoon, but...the enemy forces and desert were merciless.
A magazine per person is what we need to fight. Without that, we stand no chance.
We can get more ammo scavenging war wreckage, defeated patrols, or enemy camps.
Understood.
Traversing this dead land is harsh...
And it never gets easier, trust me.
Being large in number doesn't make us stronger either.
The slowest soldier in the group will set the speed we travel at.
You should seriously consider restoring our thirst and stamina before travelling...if possible, of course.
Also, if we don't have enough resources, maybe the best solution is to leave someone behind...
Not a nice option, I agree... but we both know that this is about staying alive.
And survival usually implies sacrifices.
You're damn right, Jack.
It's hard to tell when a soldier really needs water or rest...
Actually, not really, Sergeant. There are two main aspects you should watch carefully: Stamina and Thirst.
Whichever one is lower will set the overall physical condition of the soldier.
If you see a man dragging his feet, he could be suffering from dehydration.
But sometimes, we are just tired, and no matter how well hydrated we are, we need to sleep.
You can talk to me whenever you want and I'll check how we're doing on thirst and stamina. 
Also, you should know that if our thirst is critical, our stamina will drop faster.
I see... OK.
And what about you? You don't need water or rest?
Is it because of that special suit? I've never seen one like it.
Yeah, probably.
What are those injections you carry with you?
If a soldier's stamina drops to zero, he'll collapse.
These shots will restore their stamina and get them back on their feet.
But without water, it won't matter and he'll faint again soon.
Mmm... OK.
There's nothing to talk about.
I just spared him the tougher choice of doing it himself.
He entrusted me to lead you all back home, and that's what I plan to do at any cost.
For those that want to escape from this barren hell, follow me and you'll see your families again.
Pull yourselves together! Sgt. Abraham's decision has given us a chance.
He's a true leader. You joined the Constellar Federation to give your lives for the mission.
And he did so for his mission - to do whatever is necessary to see us all get back to base.
Don't let his sacrifice go to waste. We must survive this.
We really did it, team.
Now chin up, go in there, and ask for a beer.
You fucking earned it.
We really did it, team.
Now chin up, go in there, and ask for a beer.
You fucking earned it.
Sergeant?
I want to give you something.
What's this?
I know that your identity was lost in that horrific crash...
...and with no dog tags, that could lead to problems with the Constellar Federation...
...They're not as friendly as they used to be.
But...
You taught me the meaning of sacrifice.
Thanks to you, I am alive.
Because of you, Sgt. Abraham's mission has been a success.
Accept this, and let him live through your deeds.
Thank you, Jack.
At your command, Abraham.
Give Water
Kill
Travel...
Mission Status
Check Signal
Give water to everybody...
Request Inform...
What do you want me to check?
Stamina
Thirst
Give Water
Lead attack...
Ask about...
Yes, Sergeant?
Crew status
Stim shots
Kick out
Explore...
Give Water
Lead attack...
Kick out
Give Water
Lead attack...
Ask about...
What do you need, Sarge?
Combat
Enemy Camps
Ammo
Travelling
Kick out
Give Water
Lead attack...
Kick out
Fallen enemies
Remains of battle
Shelter
Cactus
Moist terrain
Conquered Camp
Scavenge...
Sleep...
Scavenged Camp
Sleep...
Oh my gods...
Why?
Damn it...
Sergeant...
YOU'VE BEEN SWALLOWED BY THE SANDSTORM.
TOO LATE, THE CONSTELLAR FEDERATION HAS LEFT THE PLANET.
YOU WERE CAPTURED BY THE ENEMY FORCES.
YOU LOST ALL YOUR CREW.
Shit.
Critical
Bad
OK
Good
Perfect
My body feels so heavy...
I'm so tired...
My legs are failing me...
I need water...
Please, I need to drink...
Water...
I understand. I'm sorry for making you drag me around this far.
What? I did my best and yet... OK
Yeah, whatever. I didn't think I was going to make it either...
Fine, but tell my wife I died fighting with a smile and wasn't abandoned like a dog.
You are a cold son of a bitch, but because of that I believe you'll save the rest. Take care, guys...
Unknown Soldier
North
West
-XX- hours to the deadline.
They said their camp was -XX- from where we met.
northeast
We have -XX- rations of water, -YY- clips of ammo, -ZZ- explosives and -AA- stim shots.
We are moving further from the source of the signal.
The signal hasn't changed, we're as far away as the last time we checked.
We ran out of water.
We don't have enough water for everybody...
Thanks to the gods, no one is thirsty right now.
Let them drink
Cancel
If everybody who is thirsty drinks we will spend -XX- rations of water.
Thank you, sir!
I'm not thirsty.
Dig (-XX- hours)
Should we dig this terrain for water?
I'm not tired.
Sleep -XX- hours
Maybe it's time for a nap...
I don't need anything...
Scavenge (-XX- hours)
We could find something useful if we search around.
-XX-, I need you to explore the area.
How far do you want me to go, sir?
-XX- Zones (-YY- hours)
-XX- Zone (-YY- hours)
This is the crew's stamina:
This is the crew's thirst:
They had -XX- clips of ammo.
Also, they were carrying -XX- rations of water.
Also, they were carrying a ration of water.
-XX-, I want you to lead an attack.
We can't plan an attack if we don't know what's there, sir. You should first send someone to explore ahead.
There's nothing to attack in that direction, sir.
Use Explosives -XX-%
Send Attack
Cancel
Should I use some reinforcements? Our current chance of victory is: -XX-%
We don't have ammo, sir. Forget about engaging the enemy...
Explosives! Great.
Gotcha. -XX- will come with me.
Our current chance of victory is: -XX-%
but we don't have any more ammo for reinforcements...
On second thought.. forget that.
There's no one here loyal enough to the mission to give that order... The only one with guts was Jack.
Corporal Jack, kill Sergeant Abraham.
We don't have any stim shots lefts...
Good. Now we have -XX- extra rations of water.
Yes! We found -XX- rations of water!
Nice... We found -XX- clips of ammo.
And an extra explosive! Good work.
Also, there were -XX- rations of water!
I'm back, sorry for the wait. This is what I saw...
First...
Then...
After that...
And then...
Next to that...
I saw nothing but desert
There were dunes, that's why I'm late.
I found a cactus, we can get water from it.
There was some kind of shelter with a nice shadow.
I saw a lot of remains from battle, maybe we can find ammo around there!
I crossed a terrain which seemed moist.
I sneaked across an enemy patrol.
I came across an enemy camp and almost got caught, so I had to take a detour.
My route was blocked by a huge wall, so I had to come back.
I found the camp! This is not a dream! We are about to get there!
Thank you, -XX-. Good work.
He should have returned by now...
Wait 1 hour
Abandon
It's been a tough battle. We lost -XX-. But we won, and we won't let his sacrifice be meaningless.
We crushed them. That was a flawless attack. Good job, team.
He's not coming back... I'm sorry team, we lost him.
They're not coming back... I'm sorry team, we lost this battle.
Do it.
Jack! Have you lost your mind!? What have you done!?
I'm saving us all! Do you think he would have survived this desert?
The hell with rank, I won't walk through the desert under the orders of a traitor. Whoever thinks the same, come with me.
We know our basecamp is -XX- from here, but this desert is treacherous...
I can barely walk...we both know the slowest soldier sets the travel speed for the whole group. If you don't give me water and rest, we're all going to die.
Great, we beat the sandstorm! We should hurry to your basecamp now.
SHIT! Those are our ships! We're doomed...
You had -XX- hours left.
You had -XX- rations of water, -YY- clips of ammo, -ZZ- explosives and -AA- stims left.
You killed Sgt Abraham.
-XX- soldiers died in the desert.
Gods... we made it!"}
{"c6_cin_capsule_0":"It's strange.. I always become aware of my penance when I'm stuck inside this tomb...
...Such clarity...
To be certain of my own continuity.
These final brief moments of enlightenment...
All of this is just a perceived reality, enacted over and over again. Only the stars bare witness to this perpetual anomaly.
It feels like I've already made all of these decisions before.
And yet none of them, all at the same time.
Always with a single hope:
That the end of this will lead me away from that white sand.
...
I was a fool to believe...
...to even dare to assume that the Constellar Federation would accept the terms.
When we just gave them an excuse to create even more propaganda for their military and gain support against terrorism.
But this has settled it for us.
We'll never attain a free world unless we claim it by force.
If we, humans, are the element that makes it impossible to have a free world.
Then we will remove ourselves from the equation.
Gactus VII will be the cradle of this new era.
If the Constellar Federation doesn't respect life.
We'll give life a fortress, time, weapons and a chance to evolve.
If peace isn't possible, then we'll level the playing field and give the Constellar Federation a real war.
Gactus VII is just the beginning.
Xenolifer, prepare to be hunted.
Because we're about to become humanity's most dangerous enemy.
We are losing oxygen!
Everyone, don't forget your passwords!
What the hell is happening!?
No.
The escape pods are prepped for evac, everyone get ready.
We don't have much time, so I'll be clear:
You're wasting your time, Abraham.
I've been Xenolifer- and that's how I know that I can make Wouter here talk with just two swift kicks.
And I know that this old man cares more about the people in this room than he does about himself. Hell, even you have your points of leverage, Shaman.
...
Sir, I have already assessed the current situation.
Here, I'll project some useful data on the lab's window.
Sir, this room is losing oxygen.
You have to get their passwords before oxygen depletion reaches 0%.
Also, I calculated how many people will die on Gactus VII as the situation aboard the Matriarch progresses.
Sir, I scanned all immediate crew members through my empathic devices. You can now track their morale.
But be aware of the rebellion counter, you'll lose control of the situation if it surpasses 100%.
Quiet, Burden. Remember, they can hear you, sir.
OK. This time will be different, I won't fail. You'd better confess quickly.
Shaman! This is not the way!
I respect Xenolifer. I really do.
But I can't let you do this.
There's still hope for you! Abandon this nonsense and return to your path.
Our path!?
What could you possibly know about our path?
We're doing this because you left us no other choice.
The Constellar Federation didn't hesitate in exterminating the alien races that resisted slavery.
My family...
For humans, killing aliens is just cleansing, not genocide.
So, you're resorting to the same methods as your enemies.
What's the point of fighting for freedom and life, then?
What kind of peace do you plan to achieve through this massacre?
Please, Abraham. You know better than anybody that we have exhausted all other possibilities.
Abolishing slavery will destroy humanity's way of life. That's why they won't ever give up.
The Constellar Federation built an empire on oppression and violence.
And it has to fall. Whatever the cost.
Whatever the cost!? We're talking about four billion lives!!
THEN SO BE IT! I'M FIGHTING FOR TEN THOUSAND TIMES THAT AMOUNT OF LIVES!
AND I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT THE MERCY OF A QUICK DEATH. I'M TALKING ABOUT MILLIONS OF LIVES PLAYED OUT IN PERPETUAL SUFFERING!
Please, Shaman. I'm begging you.
If you do this, Xenolifer will be hunted down and destroyed.
All of this will be for nothing.
If you stop this nonsense, I...
I'll join Xenolifer and your cause, this time with no ulterior motives. I'll help you abolish slavery in all corners of this universe.
And we'll do it by means we can be proud of. We can be remembered as heroes, not murderers, Shaman.
I don't fucking care anymore.
I don't want to be remembered, I don't give a fuck about legends.
You may enjoy that status. I'm sure that a medal on your chest will allow you to sleep well at night.
But I'm not fighting for a plaque with my name on it.
Let Xenolifer fall if that achieves a free world.
At least let us have one damn world in the known universe in which we can be free, Abraham.
Even if you create a world free of humans...
What do you think comes next?
Do you think the Constellar Federation will let you have that?
They'll blow up the entire planet before letting you win.
...
Damn it, Abraham.
We'll fight back. I'm sure Liam will come up with a solution. He always does.
I respect Liam as much as you do, but he's just a man!
...
Hey, you! Do you really want to be responsible for the deaths of so many?
And you? You don't look like any kind of saint to me.
What's the difference between you and me? The death toll? The meaning of their deaths?
Just leave me alone!
Don't make me do this, kid. Tell me your password and you'll make it out of this.
And don't do it because I'm threatening you, do it because of how the Constellar Federation will hunt your ass down if you go through with this.
The same goes for you, man. Do you enjoy being the hero that much?
Why don't you just go live on a wealthy planet and enjoy your slaves?
Damn kid...
Have you ever killed before, Wouter?
You should know that you are already killing people as we speak.
People the same as you, as your team. All of them with their own families and hopes.
Innocent people whose only sin is being born to the wrong planet and ruled by the Constellar Federation. 
Yeah, and who have also been living on the planet with the highest ratio of slaves to humans in the galaxy.
You're right, what poor people. They don't even know what it's like to do any real work, they've never worked in mines or done any kind of heavy lifting in their lives.
You're really here to protect that lifestyle? That's your objective?
I'm not a fan of slavery, but I can't allow the deaths of billions.
Of course you can. Have you ever considered your insignificance in all this?
Why don't you just close your eyes and dream of being a martyr whilst we get on with our job?
...
Why do you care? Why don't you just enjoy a peaceful life on a planet without conflict?
You don't strike me as a revolutionary.
Have you given this any serious thought?
Hell yeah, I have. We're saving the world, man.
Saving the world by developing a weapon of mass-destruction?
Well, when you put it that way...but...
Don't you know what comes next?
Full-scale war. And not a fair one.
Wouter, you can still make this right. The decision is still in your hands.
...Shit.
Mr. Ford, I respect you fondly.
I know how you respect life over all the things.
So I'll ask you a simple question:
Why?
For that exact reason, Life.
For all the life that won't exist because of humanity.
Humankind has become so powerful that no force of nature can push us back at this point.
People like Xenolifer are needed to stop the mindless destruction which comes with greed and ambition.
But this is too extreme! If the ones who fight for justice and freedom do this...
If we get rid of our values, what kind of future will we be able to build?
The Constellar Federation has killed billions upon billions of humans without cause, just for the sake of conquest.
And here you are fighting for them. Again.
So don't tell me about values, Abraham.
I'm sure there are other ways of achieving freedom!
I just can't believe that this is the solution you have settled on...
Not me. Liam. And I trust him.
And I know you do too, Abraham.
I don't see how this is any different from killing politicians or assaulting a space lab.
Those killings are justified because those people were deemed 'bad'?
Are you really that naive, Sergeant?
I did those things for the sake of my mission.
My true objective was to stop you and put an end to the violence.
And so we will, Abraham.
Why are you letting Xenolifer come to this?
Come to what? We've always been this, Abraham.
We've always targeted those who support slavery.
And I know you didn't fake your loyalty to our cause.
So let me ask you:
Why are you letting yourself become this?
Why do you want to please the Constellar Federation so badly?
I'm not asking you to kill those 4 billion people.
I'm just asking you to let us be.
Letting you be is the same as killing those innocent people on Gactus VII.
And yes, I do respect your cause. That's why it hurts me to see how twisted it has become.
I must save Liam from himself, because I want him to be the leader that this universe needs.
And not to be remembered for genocide, but for the message he can deliver to humankind.
This will be a slow process. Real change can only be achieved inside the minds of the people.
And not imposed through mass-destruction.
Ok, Abraham, I'll tell you this as a witness to a century of humanity's evolution:
It is the powerful that shape the world, not the just.
...
So, you're satisfied with setting this precedent as a successful way of action?
Yes.
And whoever doesn't like how the world works should just bomb a planet and shape it to his own liking?
You're being demagogic.
No, no. Let's explore this line of thought.
In the same way you're against alien slavery, what about the ones who fight for animal rights?
Should we exterminate all the aliens on a planet to create a free world for cows?
Abraham! You're being absurd!
We're just talking about different forms of life. It seems that you're ok if the oppressed aren't intelligent enough to know any better.
And yes, I find it just as absurd to eradicate life on a planet to free livestock, as it is to kill 4 billion people to abolish slavery.
It's just a matter of convictions and perspective.
Luckily, green activists aren't as fucked up as Xenolifer.
...
Claire, I know how much you love Eddie.
Don't you even dare threaten his life!
No, this is not a threat.
I'm just trying to figure out how you are possibily willing to kill millions of children.
The medusea virus will kill them first, the weak.
You're already forcing all the parents on Gactus VII to watch their children freeze and decompose into cancerous, fungal husks.
...
I'm OK with that.
Claire!
I'm thinking about the children, yes.
I'm thinking on what kind of world we're leaving for them, not just on Gactus VII, but around the universe.
We're breeding a society where children will see slavery as the natural way of life.
I won't allow that. I won't allow our future to be shaped by monsters.
So, you think that Eddie will be proud of his genocidal parents.
As proud as kids on Gactus VII are of their slaver parents.
We're not teaching Edward genocide.
We are creating a worthy world for him to live in.
And I don't care if he ends up hating us or worshiping us.
As long as he respects life and free thought.
Yes, a world built on mass-murder will be a good world to live in.
Don't make me laugh...
You've been lucky to be on this side of the fight.
But what about all the people who just happened to be born on Gactus VII?
Do you really think all the inhabitants of Gactus VII are heartless slavers?
Are you just willing to erradicate a whole planet just for their predominant culture?
Think about it, Claire. How many supporters of your cause are you killing?
It could have been your family down there if Liam hadn't come along and found you.
...
It can't be helped. This is fate.
Maybe I'll die happy knowing that my death is setting the foundations of a free world.
I'll gladly sacrifice my life for that cause any day.
We have truly exhausted all our options, Abraham...
Or maybe Liam just got tired of always being on the losing side.
You all use 'exhausted all the possibilities' as an excuse
You keep talking about the future, about the inheritance of your children.
I can think of several ways freedom can be achieved, through education, not genocide.
What do you mean?
Has Xenolifer tried something other than killing politicians and bombing Federal resources?
Have you tried openly speaking to the people?
Have you tried a different fight? Books? Teachers?
You keep talking about children, but you would prefer to kill them all before making a true effort to educate them.
But I understand. It isn't an immediate solution, and Xenolifer does like quick and flamboyant results.
Why bother waiting for the next generation to make things better if we can just clean the slate.
But you're talking about a massive undertaking which will result in oceans of blood being spilt in the streets.
The communicators imprisoned! the teachers executed!
Every kind soul who would dare to follow us?
All dead!
Exactly. Don't you think that your own sacrifice will impart a better message to future generations?
But that really hurts, doesn't it? We're all so incredibly brave when the sacrifice is not ours.
Stop talking grandiloquently and give the people an opportunity, Gods damn it!
Abraham...
Frank, are you sure about this?
No.
No?
Don't do this. Don't even try, Burden.
I won't bother trying to tell you how many ways I think you're wrong.
So, show some respect and cut the bullshit.
Are you done talking? Do you want me to start shooting people now?
Do as you please, whatever makes you feel like a hero.
...
I know we had our differences in the past, but this is not a battle of pride, Frank.
Today, we'll decide the course of history.
Look at you, always so epic.
This is not about justice, the future, or anything like that for you, Burden.
Stop fooling yourself. Maybe you tricked everyone else, but I saw under your mask a long time ago.
You're doing this because you need to be the hero, always fighting against the odds.
One day you're the poster boy of the Constellar Federation to fool new recruits.
The next you're fighting for science at the shady Everdusk, or defending freedom next to Liam.
And the worst part is that you fooled even yourself.
You're ridiculous, Frank.
Maybe you're the delusional one if you refuse to give a second thought to genocide.
But if hating me lets you sleep better tonight, go ahead, asshole.
Ha, I pissed off the white knight.
Frank, I don't care if you don't like me.
But please, you have to stop this mass-murder.
Mass-murder?
This is sacrifice!
And I'm well aware that's your speciality.
Don't even think about comparing my mission with your delusional struggle, Frank.
Why not? It's just a matter of scale.
Executing hostages to steal the medusea virus is different than this?
Eating your partners so the rest survive?
...Killing us to prevent genocide?
Only your sacrifices are the heroic ones?
We're just sacrificing a planet for the sake of civilizations!
We're not only saving alien races, but humans from themselves.
Call me a fool, but I believe our outcome is far better than what you're used to sacrificing.
Stop pretending you know me, Frank.
And the fact that I'm a cold-blooded bastard doesn't make you any better...
It just makes us both wrong.
Fine, then. Fuck reason, fuck justice, and fuck you, Frank.
Finally, the real Burden.
Keep being an asshole, keep believing in whatever higher cause you believe.
Let's stick to the facts:
You are going to die.
Claire and Eddie are going to die.
Xenolifer is going to die.
So?
4 billion people are going to die.
All the alien races you want to set free are going to die.
You're right, you may put an end to slavery, because you're about to condemn all slaves.
The Constellar Federation will exterminate any threat to their dominance.
As they have obliterated every human nation and every alien race who represented a danger.
As the Op'mahun, you and your cause are about to become extinct.
Because you're about to engage in open conflict with the most terrifying thing I've ever known.
Your glorious Constellar Federation?
No, Frank. Revenge. For all the ones you're killing today. Fueled conveniently by our Federal friends.
And focused on your beloved alien pals.
Luckily, you won't be able to feel sorry since you'll all be dead by then.
...
Good idea, sir. My emphatic detectors received a signficant change in mood.
Anxiety will make you more persuasive.
But oxygen will be drained faster because of the exposed Medusea.
You have locked the computer, sir. We won't be able to get the antidote now...
Damn it! I'll be more careful when we come back.
Shoot Air
Remember Passwords
Persuade
Hit
Threat
Execute
Offer Freedom
Free
Input Code
YOU LOST CONTROL OF THE SITUATION.
GACTUS VII IS DOOMED.
4 billion lives... DAMN IT!
YOU WEREN'T ABLE TO GET THE ANTIDOTE.
I'll confess... Set me free, please.
OK, Abraham. You win.
The last code is -XX-
I can't stand this anymore... forgive me.
The second code is -XX-
All right, son of a bitch.
The second code is -XX-
All right, sergeant. But try to avoid violence...
The third code is -XX-
The first code is -XX-
Shaman
Damn you Xenolifer! Why Liam? Why!?
Ok, you son of a bitch, but my password is the same as Claire's.
That is enough...I'll confess, but my password is the same as Frank's.
I think I've already punished her enough...
Please, Stop!
Execute
Forgive
Great, thank you.
OK! I'll do it! But let her go!
Free
Son of a bitch!
Waiting for input...
Wrong Access Code.
Remaining attempts:
I'm not leaving! Fuck you! Kill yourself already...
You didn't kill anybody.
You didn't free anybody.
Your dominant action has been to Persuade.
Your dominant action has been to Threaten.
Your dominant action has been to Free.
Your dominant action has been to fail like a dumbass.
Your attitude has been neutral.
Your attitude has been pragmatic.
Right click to try again
If someone tells me a code, I'll free -XX-.
I was lying, nobody leaves.
You, get in to an escape pod, now.
[Empathy Report]
done
free
Oxygen
[Willpower]
Forgive"}
{"c7_intro_0":"It's great to finally see your true colors, Burden.
Did you truly think you were able to stop Xenolifer?
I respect your cause, idiot. I want to help you.
Become corrupted again and again by frustration.
What are you talking about?
I don't know why I keep dreaming I'll convince you.
Have you lost your mind, Burden?
Fight me, Liam!
I'm back.
It's a terrible fate to wait 7 long years to fight you one last time.
Yet my victory is inevitable.
Did the impact drive you crazy?
You can't win, Liam.
I keep learning your moves every time I come back.
Every time you what?
Shut up and get ready, Liam. This is it!
You know... It kinda makes me sad you never remember our fights.
I hope that beating you changes something.
Stop doddering! This is the first time you've fought me.
And the last!
I'm getting tired of that initial sword thrust, Liam.
You should try something different.
What? How did you..?
Anyway, you don't have the speed to dodge it.
I don't need to be quick if I know what's coming.
I'll show you.
Surrender, Liam, once and for all!
You think you're unstoppable or something?
This ends today, Burden. One of us will die here.
I don't want to kill  you.
If that's the case...
Then you're the one who will die this day.
Please, Liam!
I'm begging you! You are better than genocide!
Mind your own business, hero.
What's the matter?
Don't you have a Sgt Legend speech for me?
This time, I'll just fight you.
If I don't beat you, I will next time.
Wasn't Everdusk a neutral organization?
Why do they want to defend the Constellar Federation so badly?
They don't.
We originally infiltrated Xenolifer to see if we could redirect your cause to something good.
We saw you as the ace up our sleeve that would finally weaken the dominance of the Constellar Federation.
But we can't allow genocide.
I can't let you do this, Liam!
Bullshit!
Damn it! I won't let anyone stop me from ending slavery! Not even you.
I seek freedom as much as you!
But this is not the way! Starting a war against the Constellar Federation is suicide!
No! I can win this! I can, Burden! Let me win this!
You're the expert in suicide missions!
Don't you trust my power!?
Of course I do!
You can change everything, Liam!
But I can't let you lead the universe to ruin!
You once said to me that no revolution came without blood.
Then this is the perfect move, don't you see it, Burden!?
4 billion lives!
That's way more than blood!
You taught me to never surrender.
You taught me the true meaning of Sacrifice!
If we're talking about the future of the universe...
Sacrificing Gactus VII isn't any different than killing a hostage!
Liam!
This is it, Burden! This is what we've been seeking all this time!
I'm not scared of the Constellar Federation!
If you join us again...
I can't!
You can't sacrifice something that is not yours!
This is just murder! This is war!
I don't care what you call it.
The only thing that matters is what we'll achieve!
What you're achieving is change based on oppression!
Even if you succeed... You're just becoming the next Constellar Federation!
You can't force change onto people!
You have to show them why the world would be better if we give freedom to everybody!
Ha! And I thought I was the dreamer!
People! That's the real problem!
The Constellar Federation may have conquered those worlds, but it's the people who enslave them!
You know better than anybody that we have exhausted all the other options!
The next step is to destroy or desist.
And I won't surrender to a human-dominated world!
I believed in you!
After all these years of meaningless fighting...
You could have been the key to true change!
But you always end up being the start of a new war...
It's funny to hear you talk about betrayal!
Next time you should try sticking to your convictions when joining Xenolifer if you want to bring real change.
You hide behind duty, but you killed politicians and blew Federal starships to pieces!
All in the name of Xenolifer!
It was... my mission.
Ha!
The day you get rid of that stupid military code is the day you'll be truly free, my friend.
But you can do that in your next life...
Because this one will end with me!
You may perceive the annihilation of Gactus VII as a demonstration of power.
But this is just weakness, Liam!
And you succumbed to it, the path of least resistance.
No! This wasn't some simple decision, Burden! The things I did...
I looked to you as a true inspiration for what I had to do, for this path.
Your eternal discourse about sacrifice! The greater good you called it!
Think about the size of the universe!
Consider not only the known alien races enslaved by the Constellar Federation...
I'm talking about stopping the expansion of the greatest evil life has ever known in this sector of the universe.
If Xenolifer doesn't succeed, all life in the galaxy is at risk! All forms of life, even those that are still evolving could come to an end, could never have a chance!
But...
You know I'm right, Burden.
How...
How can you be so sure of this?
What makes you think you're right?
I'm just doing what any other living being would do in this life.
Fight for what I believe is right.
But how can one hundred rebels be right over the beliefs of millions upon millions of humans around the universe!?
Because they don't believe in anything.
They're not fighting.
They are just living the life the Constellar Federation granted them!
When we put their lifestyle in jeopardy, they will start asking themselves questions.
And Xenolifer will achieve that today!
So... 4 billion lives is just a way to send a question?
It's the beginning of the end, Burden.
...
You really deserve the title of 'Legend'.
How did you...?
You are a far better warrior than me, Liam.
I just won because I've fought you a million times before.
And this is the first time I ever beat you.
You keep saying things like that, but I don't get what you mean.
I don't get it, either.
But every time I die, I keep waking up in a desert...
...And never remember anything.
The only moment I remember who I truly am is here.
In outer space...
And I wonder...
Why do I keep chasing you every fucking time, Liam?
Is this the design of the Gods?
Is this their notion of a joke?
Burden...
I hoped that if I beat you...
If I saved this wicked world at least one time...
I'd finally understand the meaning of it all.
But I don't fucking get it!
What else do you all want from me, huh!?
FUCK YOU!!
Abraham...
I don't know what you're talking about.
But if you've truly fought me a million times.
Then you've faced this moral dilemma a million times more than I have.
And given the fact that you'll always stop me, no matter what...
Choose.
Decide your fate for the first time in the millions of lives you've lived.
Is my cause so wrong?
Is saving Gactus VII worth perpetuating the power of the Constellar Federation?
Or should we give a fair chance to the rest of lives you're relinquishing every time you stop me?
You know...
I don't really care.
I'm tired of everybody looking to me every time a tough decision rears its head.
But I'll do it.
This is my last offering to mankind.
Goodbye, Liam.
Take care of the world I'm leaving.
I meant it when I said I believed in you.
This is it, Burden.
Try surviving this.
This combination was inspired by the Op'mahun technique.
Time to get serious.
I'll use your strength against you to win.
Let's dance.
Witness the power of my Xeno-suit.
Back off!
This is gonna kill you.
Punch
Block
Feint
Duck
Jump back
You can't win this, Liam.
I won't let you cross this line.
This will teach you a lesson.
You need to get back on track, Liam.
You can't kill me.
Give up already!
I can read your moves.
Stop it, Liam.
I don't want to kill you.
You can't escape me."}
{"dlc_introtext_0":"Constellar Federation-N-Gactus Space Sector-N-20 years after the fall of Xenolifer.
Do you think I wasted my life?
What do you mean, Liam?
I spent half my life studying this tattered journal.
Convinced that there are other worlds. Believing that Burden's words were true.
Believing that somehow, we can change time and avoid the Constellar Federation's chokehold of slavery over all other life forms.
And now, after 20 years of searching, we're finally about to get some answers.
But I can't help but think, if we'd have spent our youth fighting...
Instead of running after some kind of magical solution to our problems.
The only way of wasting life is death, my friend.
We're getting closer.
The ship's scanners are getting really weird readings.
Not only the ship, Liam. I'm feeling an immense power calling us.
Calling us? You mean it's alive?
Well, in a figurative way...
So it's not alive.
No. It's not alive, stop making fun of my powers.
Ha ha ha. It's been too many years my friend, I can see through your charade.
I might like to be a little grandiose...
But the fact is that I can feel something, Liam.
And it's been ages since I felt something like this.
What do you mean?
The Op'mahun.
No way. You think we're about to meet the survivors from the Constellar Federation massacre?
I don't think so. My ancestors were all exterminated by the Federation. I'm certain of that.
But... there are other ways of meeting them.
And if what we've been researching is true...
Burden's time anomaly, the nebula, Agent Amber's discoveries...
Everything will finally make sense...
Since the Op'mahun were the only known life form able to manipulate time.
Holy shit! Look, Shaman!
A nebula!
I never thought I'd live to witness this.
Liam...
This is not just a nebula. This is the nebula.
The God of the Op'mahun:
Op'mirhal, the Scholar of Paths.
Ruler of memory and will.
Pretty cool sounding title for a god, mate.
Let's warn the team.
We're going inside that god of yours.
And that's how I became a billionarie.
You earned it, Paul.
And because of you we've been able to finance this crazy mission.
Who'd have thought you'd end up paying Xenolifer's bills.
There is no Xenolifer anymore. It's just Liam and Shaman.
When Liam first came to see me a few years ago, I thought he was crazy.
But time has passed for all of us, and the man who stood in front of me wasn't a crazy rebel punk anymore.
I decided to hear him out, and, well, here we all are.
I've never sympathized with Liam or his methods.
Damn, I've spent half of my life hating him for what he did.
But truth be told, the Constellar Federation is out of control now.
And... it'll be great to meet Burden again.
All of this about his diaries and the secret interest the Everdusk had in him...
It sounds crazy, but I want to believe that other realities are possible.
It's definitely fucking true.
I shared most of Burden's existence and I can assure you, the man had something special.
He always had this damn look on his face, like he'd already seen it all.
And fuck me if he hadn't.
Hey, you finished badmouthing us?
We did it, guys.
We're close to where Burden disappeared 20 years ago.
And guess what. There's a Nebula waiting for us.
Not only that, my theories about Burden's anomaly being related to the Op'mahun start to ring true.
It's no common Nebula. It's the god of the Op'Mahun, the Scholar of...
Shaman, mate.
Sorry to interrupt you, man, but we'll be making contact in less than 10 minutes.
You can bring us up to speed with Op'mahun culture once we've traversed the damn thing safely.
We'd better prepare ourselves.
Finally, let's do this.
Liam!
Are you OK?
Wake up.
Where are we?
Fuck, my leg!
Shaman, what happened!?
All of us miraculously survived the crash.
But Shaman's weak leg didn't endure the accident.
Don't worry, we've been taking care of him while you were napping out in the woods.
Sarah brought you back.
Thanks...
I can't remember a thing.
Neither do we.
I'm no scientist, but nebulas aren't supposed to work like that, are they?
I told you!
It was no normal nebula, it was Op'mirhal, the god of...
AH SHIT, DOCTOR!
Doing my best here. Hang on.
I'm afraid you won't be walking in the near future.
Shit.
And what's the engineer doing? Can we repair the ship?
My name's Donald, asshole.
I'm sorry to say this ship is as wasted as Shaman's leg.
Maybe this is karma for destroying ours back on Sineicos.
Damn it, Donald. You really are a rancorous nerd.
I'm sorry, sweetheart.
Don't call me that.
I'm sorry, sweet- I'm sorry, Sarah.
The thing is, I don't want us freezing to death like on Sineicos.
So...
I'm stripping the ship's Igniter.
It should have enough battery to keep us warm.
And if things get nasty, we can reload the guns' laser battery with it.
Awesome. Great job, Donald. I like your initiative.
Uh... thanks.
But the igniter won't last forever. What are we going to do?
What is this place? I wish Burden was here to lead us...
Hey, man. I may not be a legendary soldier, but I led one of the greatest revolutions of the century.
You'll have to do with second best, I hope that's ok with you.
So...
What we'll do now is...
Mmmm...
Shaman?
I can see some temples in the distance.
I've never seen one in person, but they resemble the ones my father told me about.
I guess... I'll have to give you a crash course in Op'mahun culture.
Those are Dunahrai, they were built by our ancestors as navigational devices.
Hell of an investment for a fancy beacon, with all due respect.
Well, they're not meant to guide you through this land, but through time.
What?
For the Op'mahun, time is not constant, like in human science.
Time is a sea, you can sail in any direction.
And through the Dunahrai our god, the Scholar of Paths, talks to us.
Yeah? And how come the Op'mahun are extinct if they can manipulate time?
As I said, your human perception of time only allows you to imagine a line on which you can only go forward... 
or backwards in your wildest dreams.
But time is an ocean, and not existing today just means that this direction is a dead end for the Op'mahun.
Like walking through a forest and finding a cliff you can't overcome.
Well, you don't just stop walking.
You can still go wherever you want, you just have to walk in a different direction - and not only backwards.
Except time doesn't work like that, man.
Humans don't have the capacity to even begin to understand it.
So this crappy metaphor is the only thing we have to outline what time is for the Op'mahun.
OK. The leg is safe.
You'll be ok, but you won't be able to stand on your feet for a couple of months.
And by the way, I believe I kind of understand the Op'mahun concept of time.
I don't think so.
What I just told you is like the version my father used to tell me at bedtime when I was a brat.
Ok, now that we've learned some more about your culture...
What do we do?
The Dunahrai should be connected with moments in time.
If I focus, I might be able to track Burden's essence.
I've felt it ever since we started towards the nebula.
Wait, you have real powers?
I always thought you were just an epic phony.
Shhh.
...
Freh-birhal!
Come again?
Sorry, that's an Op'mahun equivalent to holy shit.
I found it. I can feel him.
The very same essence I felt when he destroyed the Matriarch.
But you're not going to like this.
Oh, here we go...
The Dunahrai we have to go to is located above the clouds.
I told you, the ship is completely wasted!
I know, and it would be great to have it working. But we can still get there.
How?
Climbing a big fucking mountain.
But the air is becoming colder and colder as we go up.
Come on! This is going to be fun!
A lot of people would pay to be in your place.
I love your concept of fun.
Right. Totally unbeatable.
Well, we are closer, but not close. Probably still about 15 Km to the peak.
It's important not to lose sight of our team status, battery, and distance travelled if we all want to make it out of this alive.
You say challenges, I say trauma.
Thanks.
It's working full steam. I didn't expect the climb to be so cold.
I mean, I'm carrying it and I couldn't feel warmer. So let me know if you want to carry it for a while.
And if we're planning on reloading our weapons using the igniter's battery, it might not even last that long.
We can restore anyone's stamina or body temperature in an emergency case.
Well, about that...
Mirwhat? Are they deadly? Were you planning on mentioning them any time soon?
They haunt trespassers and steal their body heat, turning them into frozen statues as warning to future invaders.
Well, we were just warped through some divine nebula, so...
Let's hope they don't exist, but if they do...
Remember what I taught you. In combat, don't trust your weapon, trust yourself.
Team, since it seems we've got a ways to go and it won't be getting any easier, let me give you some advice on climb survival.
Leading blocks the wind for the team, and it puts him in charge of setting the safest path by watching out for terrain anomalies.
The tail of the pack is the safest spot: it presents almost no wind resistance and the snow will be well-trodden by our steps.
I'm not complaining, but carrying weight also drains a bit of extra stamina, so we'll eventually have to swap duties.
I'm not just talking about you: the igniter or even the weapons will be an extra toll in these conditions.
Basically, those who feel strongest should lead the climb and those who are worn out should rest at the back of the pack.
It seems we've got a lot on our plate, so let's take Donald's advice and keep thoughtful track of our resources.
My pleasure.
Alright.
Understood.
Let's fucking do this.
Why do we have to climb the highest fucking mountain on this planet?
You know, nothing has ever been easy when Burden is involved.
Shaman felt that this is where we should head, so that's what we're doing.
So we're walking into certain death just on some tribal hunch?
Hey, the day you can communicate with computers without touching them, we'll start following your hunches.
Fair enough.
Hey, Sarah, can I ask you a question?
Sure!
Last time we met, I mean, many years ago. You seemed so helpless.
And now you're an even better shot than Jack.
The student always surpasses the master.
What happened?
...
We could say it was because of you, in a certain way.
That doesn't sound very good.
It doesn't. After the events on Sineicos and the conflict with Xenolifer...
I was profoundly traumatized.
I felt impotent, like at any second I could be the victim of some fate's whim.
I needed to take the reins of my life. So I quit Everdusk.
And our marriage.
Yes, Donald. Get over it, it was 16 years ago.
I'm not that naive pyschiatrist looking to cure people's souls anymore.
Now I'm ready to crush whatever stands in my way.
And you're doing what?
If I'd have been like this back on Sineicos, maybe Jack and Burden and I could have shot Liam down right there in that fucking cave.
Woah, easy there.
None of us would be here, Burden would be alive and maybe the universe would be a better place.
You're not the only one haunted by regret, Liam.
Fair enough.
Anyway, I'm glad to know you're this tough now.
You know, Zenész, I envy you.
What for?
For having achieved something so impressive with your life.
I don't care about being rich. That, you totally deserve.
But when I was young, I always thought I'd do something relevant for the scientific community.
Man, developing an intelligent, self-adapting Medusea killer...
It's like saving the world a thousand times.
You are amazing.
I don't agree.
You did do something relevant for the scientific community.
BR4ND-0N is still the most advanced empathic android I've ever seen. No one has successfully replicated it since.
It saved our lives thousands of times back in the old days.
If you hadn't been drowning in self-pity since your rupture with Sarah, I'm sure you would have developed something even more amazing by now.
...
Thanks.
Both for the recognition and the sincere words.
So, let me get this straight.
Based on what you've been researching, Burden is trapped in a time loop from Legin desert to Xenolifer's fall.
Right.
And I know it not only based on my investigation.
Burden himself told me that he was trapped in a loop and had relived our battle millions of times.
That's how he ended up defeating me. No way he could have done that without super powers, ha ha.
I tried to convince him to aid Xenolifer but his resolution was admirable.
His resolution?
You're still trying to convince him to join you even 20 years later.
I think you've got him beat when it comes to resolution.
Ha ha. Thanks.
You know what tortures me?
To think that this is the 'official' timeline.
Having defeated Burden a million times to one means that in 99% of other timelines, Xenolifer wins.
And sometimes I wonder if that's enough...
No. That's not enough.
Time is an ocean. And I won't forgive a single wave in which slavery triumphs if I can fight it.
...
Damn well said, Shaman. I'm glad to have you by my side until the bitter end.
It's unbelievable that the Constellar Federation ended up being a hell of a lot worse than Xenolifer.
I'm not going to say 'I told you so,' but...
Sure, but who could stand by and allow the genocide you were after?
At the time, it seemed reasonable...
And now it seems an even smaller price to pay.
Just think about all the alien races that have gone extinct in the last 20 years.
But even if you don't give a fuck about other species, don't worry:
As of today, the Constellar Federation has enslaved over 800 billion humans and killed too many more to count.
Call me a crazy revolutionary with no limits, but sacrificing Gactus VII now looks like a joke compared to what the Federation's done.
I know. The Constellar Federation has evolved into one of the worst calamities in human history.
But even so... 4 billion innocent lives on Gactus VII...
It's a matter of pragmatism:
Be true to your moral principles, paving the road for the biggest dictatorship history has ever known?
Or sacrifice a single one of the countless planets humanity had conquered by force in order to stop them?
...
Liam, do you think the Constellar Federation would have gone this far if it wasn't for Xenolifer?
What do you mean?
After Xenolifer's fall, the Federation killed 2/3 of the alien population on Gactus VII as a preemptive measure.
Other planets, terrified at the idea of being next, supported the Federation's drastic actions.
There were some minor protests, of course, but the Federation easily shut them down just by fueling people's fears.
Yeah, I still remember the propaganda they were spreading about Xenolifer threatening 8 different planets...
It wasn't that hard to believe. Vengeance totally suits you.
I swallowed it and went back to my job as chief of the counter-bacteriological unit for the Federation.
I don't regret developing the definitive cure against Medusea, but...
You did totally help the Federation consolidate their power.
Your achievement is amazing anyway, doc.
But Jack, answering your question.
I don't believe it was because of Xenolifer.
I'll accept that we probably accelerated the process, but the Constellar Federation was definitely aiming for this in the long run.
At least we forced them to show their hand.
Man, you're always able to bend logic to your favor, aren't you?
Yes, he is. How do you think Xenolifer won so much support back in the old days?
Ha ha.
Mmm... Sarah?
Yes, Donald?
How to put this...
In all these years we've been separated, I see you've become quite familiar with combat.
So?
Well... I was wondering...
Have you killed anyone?
Hey, that's not a nice thing to ask, man.
Well, Jack, I think I have the right to ask her some personal questions.
It's OK.
...
No... I haven't.
Why do you say that as if you're ashamed!?
That's amazing!
Yeah, I've never been in actual combat... Are you happy?
Yes!
Listen to your ex-husband, Sarah.
We don't think less of you for not having killed anyone.
On the contrary, I envy you. Living without blood on your hands must be awesome.
I guess so...
I guess this will unearth unpleasant memories, but...
Why did Xenolifer disintegrate?
You guys don't seem to have lost your fighting spirit.
Well, keeping a revolution moving for ten years was hard enough on it's own.
But then the Matriarch, undefeated for 7 years, was blown to pieces by a single guy...
And on top of that, the Constellar Federation executed 2/3 of Gactus VII's alien population.
Killing a couple thousand humans, presumably Xenolifer supporters, along the way.
In a matter of months we lost practically all of our support.
People were afraid of being caught in the Xenolifer witch hunt.
And when it comes down to it, the rights of other species aren't worth fighting for when your own survival is at risk.
Can't blame them.
I see...
In the end, only the craziest of us kept fighting against the unwinnable.
But guess what.
Burden taught me that it only takes one person's will to change the universe.
I've never been a revolutionary.
I understand why some people opt for an easy life and just pray for everything to be alright.
I've been there.
But having known people like you... And having seen what the Constellar Federation has turned into...
I don't understand why there's not a war going on.
Why there aren't millions of people rising against them.
I mean, 20, 30 years ago, you could just say 'Whatever, fuck the aliens'.
But the Federation is even openly enslaving humans now!
Like it or not, Donald, the grand majority of people are like you.
Rebels, revolutionaries, freedom fighters... we're a dying breed.
The Constellar Federation did an excellent job not just in conquering worlds, but also in educating them.
There was a time when it was relatively easy to inspire those lazy bastards.
But in a few years, we'll be nothing but a tale.
Independent thought has been one of the biggest casualties of the last century.
And the Constellar Federation now has the technology and the power to breed a meek humanity.
I see... so we'd better get this right.
Resorting to a legend on the slim chance that we might be able to change the past doesn't seem so wild now, huh?
If we fail, we'd better pray there are more crazy guys like us out there trying to make things right.
Or the universe as we knew it is done for good.
Hey.
What's your favorite alien race?
What do you mean favorite? They're not animals.
It's not like preferring cats over dogs.
Come on, don't be like that.
There's a huge variety of known alien races, there's nothing wrong in finding one more appealing than another.
Yeah? What do you fancy most then, black people or white people?
Come on! You know it's not the same at all.
It's more like... what do you prefer, blondes or brunettes?
There's more to a woman than her hair color, Jack.
Come on! You too?
I know, I know! It's what's on the inside that counts.
I'm fond of Rauk'ars and like my women with dark hair and big curves.
Woah, shit, that came out of the blue.
Ha ha ha ha ha!
...
...
So...
Let's say we do find Burden.
Then what?
I've been thinking a lot about this.
Based on Agent Amber's documents from the Everdusk...
And what Burden told me during our final fight.
He doesn't remember a thing until he's isolated in outer space, about to crash with the Matriarch.
So, even if we really are able to find him, and we tell him to change the past...
He won't remember until he's about to face me that last time.
Given that, I'll have to try and convince him once and for all using the advantage of hindsight.
I'll tell him to choose Xenolifer in order to avoid the Constellar Federation's supremacy.
And just pray that that's enough to save the universe.
And what about us?
We'll just... die?
I don't know, Donald.
Maybe we can finally rest, find new lives in this godsforsaken timeline... or even find a way out through Op'mahun technology.
I don't really care.
Well, I do, so I'll start thinking on what we'll do next.
If it keeps you climbing, go for it.
If you were born in a different place and time"If you didn't have to fight for anything, what would you have wanted to be?
Doctor. A normal one, I mean.
Engineer. A normal one, I mean.
Soldier. A normal one... Wait, I'm that already.
Ha ha ha. If I hadn't been born as a nomad on Legin...
I'd want to be an actor. Starring in action movies where I'm kicking ass and taking names, stuff like that.
So, basically the same, but faking it.
And with happy endings, not real death and suffering...
What about you, Sarah?
I don't know...
I really liked being a psychiatrist, but I felt like I wasn't being challenged, so I joined Everdusk...
Then there were too many challenges so I became a warrior, though I haven't been in real combat yet.
But what I truly wanted to be as a kid was...
Gods, this is shameful...
Spit it.
Forget it, it's not even a profession.
A princess! She always wanted to be a fairy tale princess!
Donald! Don't be an asshole.
Sorry... I...
Yeah, I was obsessed with marrying a prince and living in a cute fucking castle.
Well, that seems pretty normal in a little girl...
Obsessed about it until she was 15. 
Yikes.
I'm going to kill you, Donald.
But yes, and when I was 17 I realized there was something wrong with me.
So that's why I took up psychiatry.
Well, in just your specific case, I'm glad you didn't achieve your dreams.
Being a princess is totally overrated.
What about you? Shaman?
A cook.
Ha ha, that'd do for a great TV show. Cooking with Shaman, learn the tasty secrets of the Op'mahun!
...
Your turn, Liam.
I don't know...
I'm pretty fucked up, I couldn't do with a calm life...
I'd probably end up looking for whatever conflict I could find, I'd pick a side, and I'd try to solve it.
For me, it was like that before I started the revolution. I guess I'm completely hopeless.
I wouldn't expect any less from the only man who's ever been able to pose a serious threat to the Constellar Federation.
It's amazing how just a couple of decades without opposition so significantly affected the universe.
Yeah, how can a nation go from being perfectly civilized to enslaving humans in just 20 years?
They planned it quite well.
It all started with the decimation of aliens as a preemptive measure to stop Xenolifer.
They had built their empire on the backs of slaves, and the slaughter of the alien populations they relied on left a gaping hole in their mechanism.
But it was a setup, cold and calculated.
With their lifestyles at risk, people didn't hesitate to support the bill that replaced the death penalty with a life sentence of slave work.
And that's how human slavery started.
And over the next few years, slave work sentences mysteriously started to grow in numbers...
Those sons of bitches.
Exactly, and since they were imposing new slavery regulations almost monthly...
Nobody even bothered to protest when they quietly declared slavery to be a hereditary condition.
Yeah, I remember that 'To humanize lifelong sentences we'll allow inmates to have their own families' bullshit.
Now the human slave population is equal to the alien one.
And the worst thing is that even most slaves are OK with it.
If you're not OK with it they simply relocate you to hazardous work.
Meaning a quick death to some mining accident, or to failed human experimentation...
Damn. I saw some sick shit there.
I'm sorry, man.
Let's keep climbing so we can get rid of this shitty universe.
Shaman, I was wondering...
You said the Dunahrai are like time beacons for the Op'mahun.
Right.
And we're climbing this one to find the Dunahrai that causes Burden's time anomaly.
Presumably, yes.
Does that mean every Dunahrai holds a different reality?
There could be more people like Burden in the universe?
It seems so.
I think I know one more person with Burden's anomaly.
Agent Amber, the woman who led Everdusk's investigation on our friend.
How is that possible? I mean, of all the people in the universe, that two people with this same... condition will ever meet?
What, you think the Dunahrai are a casual thing?
The Op'mahun built every single temple with an intention, they didn't just randomly appear.
It's more than likely that they affect each other for more complex time manipulation.
Unlike Burden, Agent Amber was conscious of her own anomaly from the very beginning.
That's why she shot herself when Burden was about to join Xenolifer.
She knew she wasn't going to meet him again, so she probably shot herself in order to immediately restart the investigation.
I don't know why she kept the details about the anomaly from Burden, though.
Maybe we're just living a reality in which she kept silent as part of her experiments.
I guess we'll never know.
...
It's heartbreaking to climb with all these other temples in the distance.
What do you mean, Paul?
The Op'mahun manipulate time in a way we can't comprehend.
Am I the only one going mad thinking about the futility of what we're doing?
...
I've been thinking about that myself, but I try to keep those thoughts at bay.
What the hell do you two mean?
If Burden's trapped in a loop that makes him relive the same seven year timespan millions of times over...
It means there are millions of versions of our universe. Potentially an infinite amount of them.
If that doesn't drive you crazy already, multiply that by each Dunahrai in sight.
We're completely meaningless.
Shit... I guess I didn't want to know that.
On top of that, our quest is meant to save another reality, not our immediate one.
...
For gods' sake, this is exactly what I meant about keeping those thoughts at bay.
I can totally understand how you feel.
It was the same for me when I was a child, learning about the Op'mahun culture and their vision of the universe.
It may be way too much for our human minds to handle.
You can't help but wonder if anything you do has any meaning... and why you should care about anything at all.
I myself spent some years tormented and depressed as a young boy growing up in a culture that was far beyond his comprehension.
One day - I can't really recall the reason - I killed the pet Gerkual my father gave me for my 12th birthday by beating it to death with a stick.
Oh my god, that's horrible.
Yes, it was.
My father, instead of punishing me, hugged me and asked me why I had done what I did.
Crying, I yelled at him that what was the point, the damned animal was just alive in every other reality.
I asked him why I should care about anything at all.
What is the reality that matters?
And a single word erased any doubts I had for the rest of my days:
Dunahrai.
...?
All of them.
That's the meaning of Dunahrai.
So our efforts are the opposite of meaningless.
The dimension of our actions is so enormous that we might be overwhelmed by its size.
We can't give up on any single universe, just as Burden didn't every time he stopped us.
So engrave this in your minds:
Finding Burden and delivering this message may not change our present.
But it could change every new future after he goes back with our message.
Dunahrai.
Wow.
Thank you.
Dunahrai, my friend.
Dunahrai.
Jack, hope you don't mind me asking this out of the blue, but...
How did you end up being a fugitive?
Ah, well...
Life after Burden isn't the brightest part of my history.
With Xenolifer out of the picture, Burden lost forever in space, and the Everdusk getting shadier every day...
I quit and tried to enjoy a quiet life.
Enough fighting for me and all that shit.
But normal boring life had me drinking more and more and caring less and less.
The bar I used to hang out at was frequented by this group of mercenaries.
When they weren't on missions they were wasting their money in that hole.
They'd let me join their card games and we'd end up swapping stories.
One day, they were one man short for a job, and I knew I was likely to get myself killed with my unhealthy routine...
So I thought some action and money couldn't hurt.
Well... I'll spare you the details. We ended up on the wrong ship and were caught in a small conflict with the Federation.
The lucky bastard I am, just a couple months prior the slave labor penalty for war crimes had been approved.
So I ended up becoming a fucking slave. After everything I did for the godsdamn Constellar Federation.
After 9 years of slavery in some of the worst positions you can imagine, Sarah helped me break free.
You did? That's amazing!
And that's even before I trained her to be a killing machine!
I happened to be looking for Jack in the midst of my existential crisis, so he could teach me how to be tough, or... something.
And when I discovered he was spending his life as a fucking slave, I couldn't take it.
So I bribed a few officers and had Jack reassigned to the toxic mining worlds.
I made it look like a personal vendetta, and it seemed like a lot of Federation officials were eager to be rid of him.
Damn, I thought I was done for good when they told me I was being sent to the mines.
I drank a bottle of wine and crashed a drill ship against the slave transport vessel before it got to the mining world.
Craziest thing I've ever done but damn, I'd never felt so alive.
Then I realized I may have drank a bit too much to put up a decent fight... not that I was any good sober.
Luckily Jack took it from there and we miraculously escaped in the damaged drill ship.
This crazy bastard crashed the drill ship so close to the cells that she almost got us all sucked into space.
And you can't pin our success on me alone - the rest of the slaves were just as eager to kill some Feds as we were.
I want to think they took over the ship and escaped to some paradise planet after we got out.
Who knows...
So, does that answer your question?
Yep. It was a great story too.
I'm glad I asked!
So, anybody know what's become of our friends at E.C.U.K.?
I heard the organization was completely shut down once the Constellar Federation started to amass absurd amounts of power.
I guess that after getting rid of every other dictatorship, independent organizations were next.
Well, it may seem like they disappeared.
But as the one who kept his job the longest, I'm willing to bet they're still operating.
I even managed to get a promotion in the following 6 years after Xenolifer disintegrated.
6 damned years for a promotion, Donald, I wouldn't say that as if it's some kind of achievement.
...I know.
Don't be so hard on our man, Sarah.
Don't mind it, Liam.
Well, the thing is that I'm sure the Everdusk haven't disappeared.
What the Constellar Federation saw of the Everdusk, what we all saw...
It was just the tip of the iceberg.
We never knew a lot about the organization's structure, and in all our years of service not one of us ever met its directors.
Their motives are obscure, all that stuff about being the Company for the Universe Knowledge - what does that even mean?
So I'm sure they've just removed the tip of the iceberg. The machinery will keep working under the surface.
Slowly advancing towards their objectives.
You wouldn't believe the rumors in the months before they officially shut everything down...
Huh, this gets interesting!
There were these rumors of the shutdown that had us all worried...
So I started eavesdropping on a few of my superiors - just to know if I had to start looking for a new job.
And I heard these crazy theories about the leaders of the Everdusk not being human!
Oh, shut up! These rumors are as old as the Everdusk.
People just make up stories to explain things they don't understand.
Yeah, but these were Everdusk officials, and in this meeting room they were showing a map of uncharted space with some weird symbols on it!
W-what...
No shit.
...
Nah... I made that up on the fly to shut Sarah's mouth. I'm sorry.
Asshole!
But the thing is, they really were talking about the leaders being aliens, and these weren't just maintenance guys.
They were officers! officers!
Yeah, yeah, I bet they were mocking you because they noticed you were spying on them.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Enduring this cold makes me feel sorry for stranding you on Sineicos.
Oh yeah? The cold wasn't the worst part.
The worst part was praying every night that we didn't run out of food...
And if we did, that the group would decide to eat the dog before you.
Hey! How dare you! Poor Marvin!
Poor Marvin my ass, I saw you staring at me and licking your lips. Damn savage.
Ok, ok... couldn't help it, I'm sorry.
Once a Legin nomad, forever a nomad. My survival instincts kicked in, and... hey, take it as a compliment:
You were the one who looked the tastiest.
Oh gods...
Ha, ha, ha.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I know it's not funny, but...
It is funny.
Then don't you dare say you're sorry again, asshole.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
My whole life I pictured myself after 70 sitting on a comfy couch...
reading books in front of a fireplace.
I know life never goes as expected.
But to be climbing a mountain on an uncharted alien planet in order to save humankind.
That's radical.
Cheers to you then, Doc.
I hope that when I'm past 70 I get to keep climbing mountains and saving worlds.
Then believe me, Liam. Life will put you on a comfy couch in front of a fireplace.
Life's a bitch.
Ha, ha, ha.
What a bitter end for a revolutionary.
I'll pray that you have an epic death before that happens, then.
Thanks, man. Much appreciated.
If the Constellar Assholes have already crushed every major opposing force...
What do they do now with all their war assets?
Most of it has been converted for use by the military police.
I mean, you can conquer the Hollistic Empire, but you'll need at least a couple generations to completely eradicate its supporters.
So they keep the big guns around to remind the population about the meaning of freedom.
I see...
And due to the slave demand, they've started labeling random human planets as menaces to the Federation.
Then they declare war against them and enslave the survivors.
But that's sick, how can people keep supporting the Federation knowing that?
That's the thing. They don't know it.
The Constellar Federation controls the media, so they can sell the war however they want.
To the rest of the universe, those poor bastards deserve what the Federation is giving them.
Ignorance is bliss, indeed.
Hey, Liam, did I ever tell you that I met Alexander some time ago?
Alexander who?
The giant with the funny helmet that beat the shit out of me after we hijacked that space lab.
Right, right. Sorry.
Actually, I never met them if you think about it.
True.
So, what happened? Did you return the favor?
I could have, but I didn't.
I met him at the Norale Camp. The Federation had us digging for Driliv ores on some shitty dwarf planet.
At first I didn't recognize him at all.
I mean, he wasn't wearing his helmet by then.
But one day, he lent me his hand to help me to get out of the trench.
And shit, it all came back like hot steel against bare flesh.
Never saw his face, but that hand... I'll never forget its texture, shape and smell as it beat the crap out of me for weeks.
...
In that moment I wanted to dig my thermodrill into his skull.
But then I realized... he was just doing his job.
I myself have killed plenty of bastards for just a shy wage.
I don't know if he remembered me. But we never talked about it.
We worked together for 3 months and then I got reassigned for kicking some dumb officer in the nuts.
You did good.
Plain revenge is not something worth fighting for.
But I bet it felt good to trap us in that lab back on Sineicos, didn't it, asshole?
Won't lie. It felt great.
But it wasn't revenge that I was after on that frozen planet. You know that.
Whatever helps you sleep at night, boss.
The Hollistic Empire went out with a bang, huh?
Shit, those assholes were crazy, but they had balls of steel.
I never liked them, but I have to acknowledge that. Even if they did have some insane cult built around their Emperor.
Their savage system of meritocracy is the closest thing to true freedom humanity has seen in the last few centuries.
Even if it was wild and merciless.
Hey, being a Legin nomad was a lot like that, but without the Emperor worshipping thing.
So my people totally beat them on freedom.
Yeah, ok. But you were only a couple thousand in number, I wouldn't call that a nation.
So freedom is about quantity now?
Fuck you.
Ha, ha, ha.
But you're right, I don't think anybody will be beating the Hollistic Empire where balls are concerned for a long, long time.
Sending every last Hollistic ship crashing into the Federation homeworld after blowing all their ammo...
They didn't win shit, but the Federation is still fixing the damage on Caesdome.
They even had to move their capital to another planet, that must have hurt their pride.
I wouldn't count on the Constellar Federation having any kind of emotion, not even pride.
At this point they're just a ruthless machine.
True.
But that final Hollistic bang, that had to hurt. I want to imagine it did.
To build a self-destruction mechanism into every Hollistic planet...
I don't even want to think about how much that had to cost.
It's like the Emperor knew he'd lose the war eventually, so he was prepared to leave a proper impression on the galaxy.
They destroyed 30% of the Federation's ships, that's the biggest blow the Federation has ever taken.
Ah... I miss those Hollistic bastards.
Stockholm syndrome kicking in?
Fuck-
You.
Shaman, I mean no offense at all with this question, but...
You keep talking about Op'mirhal, Scholar of Paths, etc.
But really, this is just very advanced technology, isn't it?
I mean, you talk about gods and spiritual warriors.
But the things we've seen so far have had lights and wires and bear more than a passing resemblance to machines.
I'd be offended if I didn't know that your questions are borne of sincere ignorance.
And I can't blame you, since humanity tends to see the concepts of religion and technology as opposites.
But it's a mistake to believe that god, at least ours, isn't part of science.
Don't know a lot about Op'mirhal, but all other known theistic species don't relate their gods to technology.
That's because the rest of the gods are not real.
Come on, don't play the true god card.
Sorry, I should have said: the rest of the gods didn't exist before becoming gods.
The first problem comes when you try to understand every other culture through your own language.
The equivalent for god in the Op'mahun tongue doesn't have the exact meaning you might assume.
Enlighten me, then.
We don't think of gods as almighty omnipresent beings.
They didn't even create the universe, that's crazy.
Our word for god is closer in definition to 'Those who have ascended'.
It's truly a complex thing to communicate in your tongue, but...
Basically, any Op'mahun can become a god.
Through scientific, cultural or social achievements, the community can choose to make you a god.
You know this crazy ability I have, to feel electrical impulses and interface with technology without even touching it, right?
Well, I'm like a cripple to them in terms of skill.
The thing is that if you are chosen to become a god, the rest of the Op'mahun accept you as one.
And when you die, your knowledge is absorbed and replicated through the community.
Letting your career achievements become part of the collective mind, enriching the whole species.
And that's how you get to develop time-bending technology that looks like magic to human beings.
Sounds amazing.
But if what you say is true, how come the Op'mahun have been defeated by humanity?
We haven't been. Remember, this is just one of an infinite number of realities.
And they're not interested in war, that's why their weapons suck.
And we're proud of it.
We never had to fight against ourselves, so we don't have the extensive history of war backing our progress that you humans do.
Progress through collaboration or through conflict.
We truly are radically different.
I have a personal question for you, if you don't mind, Shaman.
Asking is as free as answering. Shoot.
Ok.
Are you an Op'mahun halfbreed or just adopted?
The Op'mahun are not able to reproduce with human beings.
So, yes. I'm adopted.
It's kinda crazy that human beings are able to reproduce with other species at all.
How many mestizo types do you guys know?
Well, I know them all because of my job.
But you should know that most of them have nothing to do with interspecies love.
The tale about a Jorghal titan loving a human woman is just not true.
How come?
The only alien race with which we can naturally reproduce are the Rauk'ars.
And that's because they can accept, deconstruct and bear to maturity any viviparous-type sperm.
Then, any Human-Rauk'ars female - which look mostly human, by the way - can reproduce with any other alien race.
So, any mestizo human, as you call them, has a Rauk'ars in their bloodline by force.
So, Jorghal Titan half-breed assholes are in fact 33% human, 33% titan and 33% Rauk'ars.
Well... that's not exactly how it works. It's not like making a cocktail, Jack.
Works for me.
If I ever meet Alexander again I'll ask him about his mama.
How come you're still wearing Everdusk uniforms if it was shut down years ago?
Well... Sarah and I haven't seen much action until this little adventure.
We've been working at a research facility on Gactus IV, making an 'honest' living.
You know, just trying to have a normal marriage after the traumatic events with Xenolifer.
So you gave up on achieving a better world?
Well, I didn't, I still really want to change the world.
That's why we're here, aren't we?
But Donald was right, there was nothing a coward engineer and a helpless psychiatrist could do against the Federation.
That's simply not true.
But I'll respect your decision, you suffered enough back in the old days.
But again, why are you wearing Everdusk suits?
These aren't just any Everdusk suits.
These are the Everdusk suits we wore when we met Burden.
I've been keeping them all this time.
And when this call for adventure appeared before us...
I don't know, it just felt right to wear them.
Although Donald has some problems fitting into his.
Hehe... the aftermath of a happy life.
Sarah... are you happy?
I hope you're not trying to berate me again for making you come here.
No!
I mean, this is far more dangerous than you made it sound when you asked me to join Liam and the rest...
No one would expect to end up on an uncharted alien planet after traversing a nebula, after all...
But I'm asking a sincere question here.
I've been worried, seeing your vitality drain away day by day after we established ourselves on Gactus IV.
I know you wanted to learn to shoot, to fight, to stand by yourself...
But I dragged you into my safe hole.
And I only agreed to come here because I couldn't stand one more day watching your smile fade away.
So, Sarah, are you happy?
Donald, love...
I'm afraid, I'm freezing, I'm beaten, I'm about to cry any damn moment now, but...
I would say that...
Yes. I'm happy.
I feel alive, Donald.
Thank you.
I'm glad to hear that.
I'll do my best so we survive this.
By the way Liam, how did you and Shaman meet?
I thought I told you when you were with Xenolifer.
Not really, you spent most of the time talking with Burden while I was getting familiar with the Matriarch and its crew.
Wait a second, Burden was distracting me all the time because you were doing your spy thing?
I'm afraid so.
But hey, don't feel bad. Burden always spoke very highly of you.
Did you know that he got the order to assassinate you right before the space lab hijacking and he refused?
No way.
I thought he was a professional who would do anything for the mission.
I mean, he quite literally tore the Matriarch apart just to stop me.
Yeah, but he's not your average soldier.
The guy deserted the Constellar Federation after broadcasting an anti-war message that seriously damaged the Federation's support.
Then he joined E.C.U.K. so he wouldn't have to be a mindless soldier anymore.
And that's what he was always doing, fighting tirelessly for what he believed was right.
And that's why you're alive, and that's why he chased you to the ends of space.
Because he believed in you.
And I'm really thankful for that, believe me.
It's why I'm going to the end of time to repay him.
So how did you and Shaman meet?
It's a long story. I'll tell you when we make it out of here alive. Deal?
You bet.
Liam...
Yes?
I don't know if we're going to get out of here alive.
And I feel like we've been climbing together long enough for me to ask you a question.
It's a fucked up question, I know. But I want to satisfy my curiosity as a psychiatrist:
How do you feel after having killed millions of people?
What's it like, having committed genocide?
You're right, that is a fucked up question.
But it's a fair one after everything I've dragged you into.
...
I don't really know.
I think it changed me.
I don't think it changed me when I actually did it, but when I decided to do it.
Once we set eyes on the Medusea virus, I was ready to go all the way.
Shaman had tried to talk me out of it, but I convinced him in the end...
All I had to do was fuel his thirst for vengeance. After all, the Constellar Federation had eradicated his people.
But I suppose I was justifying it to myself, too.
Four billion lives didn't sound so high a price to pay for a universe free of slavery.
And I knew even then that by releasing the Medusea, I would be no better than the very forces I was fighting against.
But I didn't care then... And I don't really care now, either.
I don't care if people see me as a terrorist, or as a hero, or whatever.
Put a label on me, judge me, condemn me, and then enjoy the free world I've created.
I'm probably just a very charismatic psychopath.
What do you think, doc?
I believe that someone incapable of empathy wouldn't be trying to bring freedom to every life form in existence.
And I think you're wrong about not caring.
I feel like you're blocking a lot of things behind that charisma of yours.
You may be right. You're the professional after all.
When we're done on this mountain I'll have you treat me, if you don't mind.
It'll be a challenge and a pleasure. Count me in.
Hey Doctor, how are those septuagenarian legs of yours holding up?
Surprisingly well, to be honest.
I'm no match for a strong young man like you, of course.
But I'm quite proud of having made it this far while still being helpful to the team.
You're damn right. I hope I'm that strong when I get to be your age.
I try hard to keep myself healthy.
Now that I have a geno-gym at my manor, it's quite a delightful task.
My, you sound like a spoiled billionaire.
I am a spoiled billionaire, indeed.
And I wouldn't change it for anything.
Well, I do suppose I'd change it to save the world... that's why I'm here.
A spoiled billionaire hero, sounds good to me.
I always pictured myself living life in a comfy armchair.
Reading books, watching movies, maybe even joining a couple friends in a club for debates about science.
Then kids, becoming an active member of our community, engaging in local festivities...
But somehow I always end up in these messy situations.
I'm just a coward, I don't get it, what am I doing here?
It's because you're a hero, Donald.
No. I'm not. I openly acknowledge that, and I don't want to be one.
I'm just a coward, like I said.
I agree, you are a coward. But that doesn't mean you're not a hero.
A hero can be brave and likeable. But a hero can be a coward and an asshole too.
And if every single one of you climbing this mountain now aren't heroes, I don't know who is.
Ok, call me a hero if you want.
But I know, deep down, I'd let the world burn if it meant I could enjoy a happy life myself.
I only happen to be an asshole who loves Sarah too much, that's all.
I think... I'm starting to have trouble breathing.
It seems there isn't much oxygen up here...
But we have to keep climbing.
This is all futile.
We aren't saving anything.
It's all just a game.
We're just playing at saving the world.
My entire career has been nothing but a game.
A blurry rush of memories where my top priorities were being cool and having fun.
Yeah, I had loads of fun being a revolutionary.
After all, I acknowledge that I wasn't doing it for any righteous cause.
Being Liam 'Ferohn-Gau' was just the most exciting option.
That's why it didn't hurt to kill millions of humans.
Because we were all just there to have fun.
And then Burden came along to break the game.
What a guy...
But I truly want every life form to be free. I think so...
But if it wasn't for Shaman, my purpose in life would be something else entirely.
I don't deserve any kind of respect.
I fought for alien rights because Darevan inspired me.
If I had met a Hollistic dreamer I'd have spent 20 years fighting for the emperor.
It doesn't make a difference to me at all.
My true self is still trapped at the bottom of that tech-hive world.
Hungry for power, a thrillseeker. Lost like a comet traversing the void.
Shining without a purpose.
Shaman gave me one, but...
Will my desires ever truly be my own?
Is there anything I really want?
I feel like climbing this mountain isn't about saving the world, but about finding an answer.
And Burden always seemed to hold that answer.
He knows. He knew all the time.
Come on... tell me already...
Again and again and again.
Burden. Burden. Burden.
Always Burden. I did exist before him, right?
It's been so long, my past seems like nothing but a shadow from so far away...
Time and space. What ridiculous concepts when you look at them.
The Op'mahun are right. Humans are just absent insects with unfair firepower.
Blasting their way through anything they dislike.
But look at this. At this mountain.
It doesn't give a shit about humans.
I don't get it.
Ha ha. What the hell am I saying?
I lost track of my line of thought.
Maybe it's the cold, maybe it's the lack of oxygen... maybe both.
I'm starting to get that feeling.
The one Agent Amber was investigating at the Everdusk.
The anomaly...
Burden trapped in a time loop.
Sometimes with a happy ending.
Most times having to eat his fucking team. Because of me, ha ha.
Sometimes it felt right, sometimes it felt unfair.
Fate.
Decisions. Being made for us by some grand force of nature, our bodies but avatars of some galactic wish.
And we keep doing these ridiculous things...
We'll die again, and again, and again.
We'll try to make it with everyone alive.
We'll try to get it done in a very short time.
We'll try to climb to the peak while using none of the doctor's shots, while having Donald lead the team, or while rejecting all the Op'mahun shrine offerings.
I don't even know why. Everything sounds absurd.
What am I even saying? I feel drugged.
The lack of oxygen is mixing everything up in my mind.
I don't even know what's real and what's not anymore.
Or if there's anything 'real' at all... that's just a human concept, right?
Dunahrai. Op'mahun mir-lau ba rekoöers.
Don't fuck it up this time, -TP-.
I'm sorry doc, we have to push forward if we want to survive.
It's ok, I made it this far, and this is a beautiful place to die.
Thanks everybody, I hope it all ends well for you.
Farewell.
Jack... my friend. We're going to have to leave you behind.
Yes, please. Go ahead.
In the end... age doesn't forgive.
Even a spectacular soldier like me.
Ha ha ha.
Don't worry about me. I'll catch up whenever I get the chance.
Sarah, We'll never make it at this pace. We have to leave you behind.
Ok.
But promise me you'll bring the team to the top.
And guys... don't even think about failing me.
I'll be watching you from afar.
Donald, We're all doomed at this pace. We have to leave you behind.
Wh.. What!?
Shit, no, please.
Wait for me!
I'm sorry...
Listen up.
Sarah spent half her life becoming a soldier.
I'm sure she was ready for this moment.
And as Jack would say, falling in action is the most glorious end for a warrior.
She decided to live intensely, and gods know she accomplished that.
Now she's gone in the snow.
But I'm proud of her.
We all should be.
Sarah wasn't a crazy freedom fighter like me.
Or a dependable warrior like Jack.
That's why we should be thankful for her valuable role in our lives.
She was an endless source of hope.
She dedicated her life to healing the most profound of wounds.
She committed to heal minds and souls.
And that didn't stop her from being just as brave as the rest of us.
She supported us, she kept us together, she kept us focused on this final quest.
Bear her in your souls and she will keep healing us from there.
I'm sure I'm not the only one that thought Donald was a coward.
At least, he was the least brave of us.
But don't forget this.
The cemetery is full of brave men.
His caution, his complaints, his rare wit has kept you all alive countless times.
Gods, we'd be long dead on this mountain if he hadn't so quickly assessed the situation and provided us with a heat source and direction.
It may seem glorious to be on the vanguard and to be remembered as a hero.
But we shouldn't forget the ones who kept us on the right path.
Even if they are rancorous nerds.
Thanks, Donald.
I never met a better warrior than Jack in all my years.
And I'm not talking about marksmanship, strength or even courage.
It's about being dependable.
I envy Burden in a way. How he's always had this trustworthy man behind his sergeant ass.
I've never felt more powerful than in the time he was with Xenolifer.
I could charge blindfolded into any crazy mission I wanted to if he was with the crew.
Because I knew he'd wipe out half a planet just to keep his comrades safe.
...
Thinking about it, I just realized he wouldn't have. He was a double agent after all.
Ha, ha, ha.
...
We'll miss him.
Dr. Zenész is probably one of the most brilliant minds of the present era.
His contributions to the scientific community are just astonishing.
But even with that he's been a fighter until the end.
Anyone else would be satisfied with having developed cures to incountable alien diseases.
To catalogue half of the known universe and expand humanity's knowledge in unprecedented ways...
Anyone would feel he's done enough.
Anyone but Paul.
Instead of enjoying his well deserved reward, he kept trying to improve this universe until the very end.
Willing to risk everything, putting all of himself into shaping the universe as he believed right.
We need to pay due respect to his life here.
Let's reach the peak and make his last deed a true and meaningful success.
...
Come on...
We have to do this...
...
We...
We can't give up...
...
No...
Don't fall...
Just another step...
...
Burden...
...
...
Why...
...
...
I won't let the Federation win...
Just...
Damn...
...
Don't take this from me...
All these years fighting...
Damn...
...
All this suffering...
For what...
...
...
I'll make this right.
Come on...
...
...
Liam, hang on.
Damn universe.
Damn everything.
Hang on...
What was that!?
It seems the Mirhal'rÿ are real. The warriors who guard the Dunahrai.
They look like machines projecting spectre holograms to me.
No one said they were living beings.
But I'm sure they can be deadly if we let our guard down.
The legend tells us they can steal our body warmth, and that's the last thing we want up here.
Yeah, ending up as one of those ice sculptures you mentioned earlier isn't the death I pictured for any of us.
As long as we shoot them down before they get to us we'll be safe.
Ok, but let's not go crazy and empty the igniter's whole battery into them.
We'll have to carefully balance our risk-reward options here.
Stamina is going to be our lifeline here.
We should bear in mind at all times how much stamina we're going to spend on every step.
The ones leading the group will waste more energy.
But the ones at the back will be able to rest a little.
We can't stop entirely or we'll freeze on this mountain.
So we'll only be able to catch our breath when we can find shelter on level ground.
In addition to our position on the climb, the other crucial factor is the weight of our equipment.
Climbing while carrying Shaman isn't the same as climbing empty-handed.
So we prefer to be unencumbered when we can.
Even if we somehow manage to preserve our stamina, if we run out of body heat we're done.
If your muscles freeze you'll succumb to the mountain and end up waiting on your knees to die.
Which is why the igniter here is our very best friend.
Only the one who carries it will be able to recover their body heat at a good rate.
But being close to the one who has the igniter will make your warmth drain slower.
Needless to say, someone who is too far away from the igniter will freeze in no time.
Let's pray we won't be engaging in too much combat during the climb.
But it won't hurt to be prepared.
The gun is lighter but less accurate than the rifle.
The rifle, although it's heavier than the gun, is more reliable.
It also has a burst mode which will use 3 bullets and notably increase its effectiveness.
But since these are laser weapons, don't waste ammunition lightly.
Our only source of battery for them is the igniter.
And if the igniter runs out of juice, we won't last two shakes up here.
So make every bullet count.
Time does not forgive.
We should be aware of our capabilities and limitations.
I myself am in nice shape, same as Sarah.
Donald and the Doctor, one because of a sedentary lifestyle and the other because of his advanced age, don't have great physical aptitudes.
So they will get tired ealier and will need extra time to recover.
On the other hand, Jack is exceptional.
His Legin nomad heritage grants him astonishing resistance.
He will need less time to recover, too.
On the combat side, I can handle myself with a gun.
But Sarah and Jack are the sharpest shooters on the team.
Donald and Dr Zenész don't have much experience but I'm sure they can aim and shoot somehow if required.
Shaman can deal with Op'mahun technology and inscriptions so we'd better not lose him or everything's over.
Time does not forgive.
We should be aware of our capabilities and limitations.
I myself am in nice shape, same as Donald and Sarah.
Doc. Zenész doesn't have good physical aptitudes in his advanced age.
So he will get tired ealier and will need extra time to recover.
On the other hand, Jack is exceptional.
His Legin nomad heritage grants him astonishing resistance.
He will need less time to recover, too.
On the combat side, I can handle myself with a gun.
But Jack has the sharpest aim by far.
Sarah, Donald, and Dr Zenész don't have much experience but I'm sure they can aim and shoot somehow if required.
Shaman can deal with Op'mahun technology and inscriptions so we'd better not lose him or everything's over.
Our climb speed is crucial.
As a group, we move slower.
We have to set the pace to the slowest member of our team if we want to stick together.
So it's better to have all of us a little tired than just one of us completely exhausted.
So it's better to have all of us a little tired than just one of us completely exhausted.
Because it's all about how fast we can get to the next shelf where we can catch our breath and save energy.
But it's a simple fact that smaller groups move faster, so the fewer we are, the faster we'll climb.
I guess it's better to survive as a few than to die as a team.
But let's try to keep casualties to a minimum, right?
I should have taken better care of the team...
Damn...
Ok, this shelf with some ancient shrine on it seems like a good spot to rest.
Try to catch your breath before resuming the climb.
So, Shaman, what's this?
I don't know.
But I feel it's alive.
I mean, there's power feeding the machine.
The slate reads as 'Hunath-gau': The one who enacts commitment.
Should I try to activate it?
Go ahead.
Woah!
I'll translate:
The Dunahrai you seek access to is no common one.
Here is guarded the Gau immortality.
The balance of time's fabric for one of the Gau.
Are you willing to prove yourselves worthy of such gravity?
What's the meaning of Gau?
I mean, I was called Ferohn-Gau in Xenolifer's glory days.
And it supposedly meant 'The one who brings freedom'.
Gau can have different meanings.
Hero, Gambler, agent of change or even 'The one at the other side'.
Mostly, Gau's meaning comes from its complement: Ferohn in this case makes your Gau stand for hero.
I see.
The question is not rhetorical, though. We can interact with this shrine.
Yes
Watch out!
What's this?
It's asking us to carry this stone to the next shrine.
Yeah, and what's the deal?
There's no deal, you can decide to drop it whenever you want.
I guess we won't discover its meaning unless we do it.
How nice of the Op'mahun.
Even if I could translate it for you, commitment doesn't have precisely the same meaning in my culture as it does in yours.
It's up to you.
I see...
OK. Let's move.
We'd better focus on the climb.
We can play Op'mahun wisdom games once we've fulfilled our mission.
...
Let's move.
Well, another shrine.
We can recover our stamina, but we shouldn't hang around here for long if we want the igniter to last until the peak.
Shaman, what does it say?
This one's 'Dolorekc-gau': The pilgrim drowned in regret.
Nice, activate it.
Interesting.
The shrine has detected the commitment stone and says it will reward us for our deed.
The stone has the power to restore our warmth and improve our resilience. It's asking us to leave it on the ground.
Woah, that felt good.
So nice of the Op'mahun.
Shaman, does the altar say anything else?
Yes.
It reads as follows:
The heaviest weight you carry is in your soul.
What haunts you from past times keeps you from future ones.
The one with the sourest burden"Shall answer the darkest question.
...
Well? Do you want the shrine to pose its question?
Well, I guess I'm the one with the sourest burden, so...
Shoot.
Well, Liam, it seems that yours is not the sourest burden.
What?
Donald, this question is for you.
What? Me?
You, the one with the deepest regret.
We'll grant you the power to erase the deepest of your sorrows.
Do you want to get the love of your life back?
Hey! That's not fair! I don't have a say in it?
Donald! Don't you even dare.
Can I really have Sarah back?
Donald!
So, do you want to get the love of your life back?
Ok, Shaman. Read that thing.
This one's 'Dolorekc-gau': The pilgrim drowned in regret.
Wh-what...
It says that the timeline we live in isn't real.
That Donald accepted the shrine's proposal already.
No way!
It seems that in an alternate timeline Sarah divorced Donald years ago.
After leaving him, she trained intensely and became a capable warrior.
But without her, Donald became a shadow of himself.
So when the shrine offered to give him the love of his life back, he accepted.
Oh my gods, Donald. That's so sweet.
You kept loving me even in other realities.
I don't know what to think of this...
Call me crazy, but inside me I can feel it's true.
And I can't help but feel bad about it...
The shrine asks if you'd like to undo what you've done.
...
Donald! No!
So, that's it? Love or life?
Are the op'mahun just a bunch of assholes?
Watch it.
So we can stay here with a happy Donald and a weak Sarah.
Or go back to 'reality,' with a strong Sarah and a hopeless Donald.
I'm not weak!
I just have different skills!
Please Donald! Don't do it! I don't want to stop loving you!
...
Do you want to go back to the 'original' timeline?
Don't worry sweetheart.
I choose love.
Happiness isn't just about being strong.
I'm glad you think so...
I still think the op'mahun are sick, to toy with our lives like this...
...
Well, it's your call.
Let's keep moving.
...
I couldn't forgive myself.
I'm ready to die for her. I love you so much, Sarah.
And I want you to be happy.
So we'd better forget about this damn Op'mahun trick and keep climbing.
...
Thank you, Donald.
All right. Let's move.
Well, Liam, it seems that yours is not the sourest burden.
What?
Donald, this question is for you.
What... Me?
You, the one with the deepest regret.
We'll grant you the power to erase the deepest of your sorrows.
Do you want to recover the love of your life?
You decide:
Respect the death of her true self, the path she chose on her own.
Or change fate itself and have her love you again - at the cost of her dreams.
...
Ok, Shaman. Read that thing.
This one's 'Dolorekc-gau': The pilgrim drowned in regret.
Wh-what...
It says that the timeline we live in isn't real.
That Donald accepted the shrine's proposal already.
No way!
It seems that in an alternate timeline Sarah didn't make it.
For gods' sake...
You and Sarah were no longer together.
She didn't love you anymore.
That's horrible...
But she had a full existence.
Her independence made her stronger and she felt fulfilled.
So you were offered the choice of respecting the death of her true self, the path she chose.
Or of changing fate itself and having her love you again, at the cost of her dreams.
And I chose to have her back...
That's OK! I don't mind, Donald.
I'm happy. I love you.
The shrine asks if you'd like to undo what you've done.
...
Donald! Don't!
So, that's it? Love or life?
Are the op'mahun just a bunch of assholes?
Watch it.
So, we can stay here with a happy marriage on the team.
Or go back to 'reality', with a dead fulfilled Sarah and a hopeless Donald.
I don't know what to think of this...
Call me crazy, but deep down I've always felt this wasn't real.
And I can't help but feel bad about forcing Sarah to love me...
But I don't want to be dead!
Please, Donald. I love you...
Don't let me disappear!
...
Don't worry, Sarah.
I'm glad to know you lived a full life in another existence.
But knowing that that existence has already ended for you...
I'll stay here, with you.
Thank you, Donald...
I love you.
OK, it's your call.
Let's keep moving.
...
I can't.
I'd love to see her again.
But not like this.
I could never forgive myself if I forced her to love me.
I'm just glad she just lived the path she believed in until the very end.
Well said.
Let's move, then.
Well, Liam, it seems that yours is not the sourest burden.
What?
Sarah, this question is for you.
What... Me?
You, the one with the deepest regret.
We'll grant you the power to erase the darkest of your sorrows.
Do you want to forgive the one who loved you the most in this life?
You decide:
Donald was weakened when you abandoned him.
Will you give up on your path and grant him love to keep him alive?
Or do you forgive yourself in your fate, leaving only him to blame for his weakness?
Are you kidding me?
Is this seriously what the shrine's saying?
You know I would never lie in this situation.
...Shit, this can't be really happening.
So, what's it going to be?
Grant love for Donald
Let Donald rest in peace
Ok, Shaman. Read that thing.
This one's 'Dolorekc-gau': The pilgrim drowned in regret.
Wh-what...
It says that the timeline we live in isn't real.
That Sarah accepted the shrine's proposal already.
What? Really?
It seems that in an alternate timeline Donald didn't make it.
I don't like how this sounds...
You and Donald were no longer together.
You didn't love him anymore.
That's horrible...
But you had a full existence.
Your independence made you stronger and you felt fulfilled. You were the best shot on the team.
I can't believe what I'm hearing.
But the shrine offered to let you give up on everything that you had achieved in order for Donald to live again.
Sarah, you shouldn't...
I shouldn't what? I think it's horrible to have stopped loving you for... what? being able to kill things?
This isn't happening...
The shrine asks if you'd like to undo what you've done.
Please, Sarah. Listen to me.
I love you. And I'm glad you've loved me all these years.
But there's always been something inside me that told me all of this wasn't real.
I want you to enjoy your life at its fullest.
And we both know you've been fighting against depression all these years.
Maybe the reason is simply that this isn't meant to be at all.
Listen to your heart and make your decision freely.
I will always love you, in this life, and in every single life beyond this one.
Donald...
...
No.
I'll stay.
I can't believe you're actually asking me to let you die, Donald.
Fuck you, you'll have to deal with me for the rest of your life.
Sarah...
...
Thank you.
These Op'mahun have a wicked sense of humor, indeed.
Ok. It's settled. Let's keep moving.
Shit...
Your people really know how to hit where it hurts.
I was blaming myself for letting Donald die. That's true.
But the shrine is right.
We've each made our own decisions.
It's hard to put it this way, but Donald's weaknesses were his fault and his alone.
I can't force myself to love him, that's not how it works.
We should push forward, there's still a way to the peak.
Damn. You truly have become stronger.
And I'm not only talking about combat.
I understand and respect your decision.
Let's go.
Well, Liam, this is a tough one...
Try me.
You, the one with the deepest regret.
We'll grant you the power to erase the darkest of your sorrows.
Your inexperience and lack of skills has brought death upon your team.
Do you wish to see all that you have achieved undone to restore the lives of your teammates?
And what would keep me from making the same mistakes?
Getting here is what has given me the experience.
A harsh lesson, indeed, but a lesson after all.
I don't know if they're testing you.
Maybe you're right and we should push on.
Or maybe this is a sincere chance to let you save everyone.
As always, fate won't reveal itself until you make your choice.
So, decide, Liam.
Do you wish to see all that you achieved undone to restore the lives of your teammates?
Start Again
No.
We should keep climbing.
After all, this is just one of many realities, isn't it?
Let's see this to the very end, that's the way it was meant to be when we were born.
And that's how I wish to end my life.
No second chances, this is it.
Let's move.
Shit!
Woah! Don't shout like that!
What if you cause an avalanche?
Damn, I think I just came from the future.
What? Is the cold fucking with your brain so soon?
I don't know, maybe I was just dreaming...
But I dreamed of an altar, and some of us had died...
Oh, shit... don't scare us.
I was given the choice of continuing without you...
Or of losing all the progress we had made in exchange for a new opportunity.
That's nuts.
Glad to see you, then... I guess.
Or maybe I just blacked out for a bit there, who knows.
There's not a lot of oxygen around here...
Forget about it. Let's keep climbing.
Finally, the next shrine.
Let's catch our breath, hit this shrine, and then we need to keep moving.
This one's 'Lrathoi-gau': The temptation of the wise man.
Nice. Activate it.
It reads as follows:
We feel one of the Op'mahun among you.
We know him worthy, Darevan, son of Tigde'nai.
We offer to transport this one to the peak.
We shall take care of his needs until the ones who follow complete their trial.
Are you Darevan?
I am, you thought my name was Shaman?
Ha ha. Shaman doesn't like us to call him by his true name since we can't pronounce it correctly.
It's not just that.
Op'mahun names are more sacred, more meaningful and powerful than you can understand.
That's why I keep it secret and only trust it to those closest to me.
I'd appreciate it if you'd all keep calling me Shaman.
Sure, no problem.
So, the shrine is asking us to warp you to the peak or something?
It seems so. And I wouldn't mind, I know I've been a burden so far.
That's true, our chances will be better if we don't have to carry so much weight with us.
But the altar being called 'The temptation of the wise man' makes it sound like a trap.
But maybe the temptation is to try and outsmart the shrine.
Don't choose lightly, Liam.
Damn, you're not helping at all, man.
Whatever you choose, I trust you. Just listen to your instincts.
OK.
I believe everybody will have a better chance of survival if we don't have to carry you, my friend.
Go ahead.
Understood.
Holy shit!
Damn, I hope he's OK.
Didn't know the Op'mahun could do such amazing things.
Well, we'd better make the most of this unexpected gift and climb as fast as we can.
Let's move!
Something tells me it's better to keep you close.
Tell the shrine we politely decline their offer.
There's no need to tell anything, it's just a machine.
We can go now.
All right!
Let's move, then.
We are very close, this must be the last altar.
Regain your stamina and...
Damn.
How do we activate this one?
We shouldn't have sent Shaman to the peak...
But...
Maybe if I just...
Really!?
Ha! Take that!
I think that thing was already expecting us, you're just a lucky bastard.
Yeah, sure. Now huh...
Ibdriada ber-ser on dercetki.
Bharaam-gau op'mirhal onoe.
Gunari lab'icl treh genjki-qseif?
Uh... It mentioned you guys.
I think it's asking me to pick a name.
Should I answer or should we leave?
Should I pick a name?
Nobody
WHA-WHAT!?
What happened?
It's a warp thing, or...?
Damn it.. I shouldn't have interacted with something I didn't understand.
I'm sorry...
But I feel... restored. Physically I mean.
My body temperature and stamina feel as good as new. No, better than that.
What the hell did I...
I'm sorry, we'd better keep moving.
We'd better not mess with something we don't understand.
We already saw how powerful these devices are.
Let's keep moving, we're almost there.
No way.
I don't think I did anything, it's just a coincidence... probably.
Do you hear that?
Ibdriada ber-ser on dercetki.
Bharaam-gau op'mirhal onoe.
Ceburm'den oed larhs gau-ino-gau.
Op'mahun, lsi tsi oed ilergiton-'mjeu.
I have a bad feeling about this...
We're really close to the peak.
Better not take unnecessary risks. Let's keep pushing our way to the top.
Let's go.
You...
You're all alive!
Were we dead?
I think so. You had all been lost on the climb, at least.
But then I interacted with this shrine...
I don't know what I did since Shaman is already at the peak.
I'm glad to see you all.
But... I had to sacrifice -XX-.
I guess the best thing we can do now is stop wasting time and keep pushing towards the peak.
Be strong, team.
This is almost over.
We are very close, this must be the last altar.
Regain your stamina and focus your strength for the last push.
Shaman, you know what to do.
Yes, sir.
This one's 'Bharaam-gau': The sacrifice of the gambler.
It reads as follows:
This is the defining and ultimate choice for every true leader.
Know you've walked all of your life towards Op'mirhal.
We will confide that the last stretch is the hardest, so name a partner.
And with their sacrifice we will make the rest of you tougher.
Is the altar really asking us to make a sacrifice?
I'm afraid so.
...
The Op'mahun really put their visitors to the test, huh?
One cannot access a Dunahrai without proving himself worthy.
It means being able to mess with time, after all.
Are we going to make it as we are right now?
...
Sacrifice one in order to ensure the survival of the rest...
Or take a risk that might lead to all of our deaths?
I can't imagine how Burden was able to deal with these kinds of decisions so many times over.
I'd give up...
Well, I can't give up. Not now.
So... Who do you want to sacrifice?
...
I hope you understand.
But I can already feel our renewed strength.
There's nothing that can stop us from activating the Dunahrai now.
Don't let this sacrifice go to waste. Let's get to the peak.
...
No.
We made it this far by ourselves.
I'm confident we can make it.
We'll make sacrifices when our legs fail on us, and not before.
Be strong, team. We're almost there.
Let's go.
It reads as follows:
This is the defining and ultimate choice for every true leader.
Know you've walked all of your life towards Op'mirhal.
We impart that the last climb is the hardest, so if you're willing to sacrifice your last partner...
The Op'mahun will bring back the ones who didn't it make it.
So... can this machine bring the team back?
But that would mean sacrificing me...
...
It's alright, Liam. It's the wisest thing to do.
We've endured this much together and after all, they already sacrificed themselves for us.
I'm sure anybody on the team would accept this if it meant saving everyone else.
I know, but...
Does the strongest deserve to die? The one that managed to get here on their own?
What a reward for perseverance.
Liam...
Do you accept the shrine's offer? Do you want to sacrifice -XX-?
No. I won't do it.
We should stop relying on these Op'mahun devices.
We are who we are and we did what we could.
We'll get to the peak by our own means.
We're almost here.
Hello everybody...
What's the matter? Aren't you going to activate the altar?
I already did.
That's why you're all here... We lost all of you on the climb.
But I sacrificed the last survivor in order to bring you back.
So that's why we're missing one...
Yes, I'm sorry.
But it was the only logical way to proceed.
We'd better keep moving.
We're almost there, let's go.
Finally... we did it.
So this is what you were looking for, Shaman?
Yes.
And it's even more powerful than I imagined.
This Dunahrai is exceptionally high. Almost in direct contact with the stars.
And the inscriptions on the slab device...
...
What?
I believe this is some sort of cage for humankind.
It says 'Briemjiva Fbor-gau inoro-gau Asmid.'
- All the paths for humans are war -
And it follows: 'Every war ends here.'
And the gau shall protect them all.
Which gau? Protect every war, you mean? Damned polyvalent word.
That's all. But I bet our gau here is Burden.
I can feel him as if I had him in front of me. I can try and release the dunahrai's power if you want.
Burden is the only thing this Dunahrai holds:
The key for humankind's cage. Or best said, its guardian.
...
Do it.
Let's end this once and for all.
Liam... Jack... You're here.
We're here, sergeant.
You know we'd follow you until the end of the universe.
...
Well, you should clearly stop, Jack.
It's not doing you any good, just take a look at yourself.
Ha, ha, ha.
Son of a bitch just came out of an alien timewarp device and he's already picking on me.
Liam... You're here.
Burden...
What the hell is happening.
The last thing I remember is kicking your ass on the Matriarch.
And now you're here looking at me with tender eyes.
Give me a break.
For us it's been 20 years, my beloved arch-enemy.
What is this place?
We're in an uncharted place in the universe. Land of the Op'mahun.
I believed in your last words, Burden.
About how you'd already witnessed it all.
About how you'd faced the same moral dilemmas again and again.
Xenolifer fell quickly after you defeated us.
The Constellar Federation stopped pretending to be a friendly democratic nation.
And over the course of just a few years they managed to enslave every alien race... and even started enslaving humans.
Those Constellar assholes went that far, huh...
So I spent the next 20 years investigating your anomaly and trying to find you.
And I finally did it, with the help of your old unit. You have great teammates, Burden.
But why did you do that?
What can I possibly do to change anything?
I just told you...
20 years ago I told you, I'm done. I don't want to keep saving the universe.
I don't even know what that means anymore.
Can't you see already that there's nothing to be saved?
This is all but a joke from the gods.
Look, I spent the last 20 years of my life looking for you for one simple reason:
To tell you you were wrong.
...
I don't care if you don't want to save the universe anymore.
I don't care if it means nothing to you.
Fuck you, Burden.
What I need you to do is to go back and let us win.
I've come this far to tell you your fight paid off with a sick world and a global dictatorship.
So, you won. Congratulations, sergeant. But you fucked it up.
Now it's our turn.
I want you to go back, say to me that you're sorry, and let us free Gactus VII.
So maybe we can set things in motion and enjoy a free universe once and for all.
Am I clear enough?
...
Ha.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
It feels good not being the one telling others what to do for a change.
I was right about not killing you.
Thank you, Liam.
Let's see where Xenolifer will lead us.
...
Do it.
Good luck kicking my ass again.
Shoot
...
You really deserve the title of 'Legend'.
How did you...?
You are a far better warrior than me, Liam.
I just won because I've fought you a million times before.
And this isn't the first time I've beat you.
You keep saying things like that, but I don't get what you mean.
I don't know when this started, or if it's ever going to end.
But every time I die, I keep waking up in a desert...
...And I never remember anything.
The only moment I remember who I truly am is here, in outer space.
Maybe someday I'll put all the pieces together and will be able to break free.
Probably when the last of the gods stop watching.
I've met you in the future, Liam.
You came looking for me, you learned all about this anomaly.
And you travelled to the end of the universe just to tell me I was wrong.
I have to acknowledge you are stubborn.
What the...
I hoped that if I beat you...
If I saved this wicked world at least one time...
I'd get the meaning of it all.
But the sense of 'saving' lost its meaning after so many tries.
This is the only insight I can share with you after all this cyclic script:
Our universe is just a joke. I'm sorry, Liam.
...
I don't really get what you're talking about.
But If I travelled through time and space just so you would let me win...
That just dispels all the doubts you planted on me with your fists.
Let's do this, Burden.
Let's shake the foundations of the Constellar Federation.
You don't get it.
I don't really care.
I've told you millions of times, but you never remember.
But that's fine, I guess...
I'm sorry I won't remember you the next time you see me, but...
Thank you, Burden.
Goodbye, Liam.
Do you think all this bloodshed has been meaningless?
What do you mean, Liam?
I spent half of my life leading the fight against the Constellar Federation.
We hit them hard, and hope keeps our soldiers fighting.
We are free. Every alien race fighting on our side is free.
But our freedom is built on top of an endless fight.
The price has been a universal war that has been going on for two decades.
I shouldn't have convinced Burden to carry Xenolifer plans...
My only hope now is that we can change the past and avoid this apocalyptic universe we created.
Bloodshed is always meaningless.
But I truly believe you'll bring peace to the universe, sooner of later.
Shaman
Keep Climbing
Change Position...
Where should I go?
Take...
Hey, let me carry another thing.
Leave behind
Abandon
Cancel
Shit... Sarah
Donald, we can't keep slowing down.
So-sorry, I'm doing my best here...
Mission Status
Jack, you're slowing us down...
Shit, I'm not a young Legin nomad anymore, Liam...
Assess Team's fire power
Doctor... you're too slow.
Apologies...
Inject boost...
Team Status
Ask About...
Should we review some survival guidelines?
Stamina
Body Warmth
Combat
Travel Speed
The Team
Rotate
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Fifth
Rifle
Drop Commitment Stone
My back is already busy!
Fuck it. Forget this commitment stone nonsense.
These are the current readings for the team:
Distance to the next resting spot:-N--XX- meters
current travel speed (m/turn):
Igniter battery left:-N--XX- units
Ok, let me see... Our current accuracy rate is around...
-XX-'s accuracy carrying the gun is:
-XX-'s accuracy carrying the rifle is:
The rifle gives her -XX-% extra accuracy.
The rifle in burst mode gives her -XX-% extra accuracy.
The rifle gives him -XX-% extra accuracy.
The rifle in burst mode gives him -XX-% extra accuracy.
Stamina Shot (-XX- left)
We have -XX- heat shots left.
I'm afraid we don't have any heat shots left...
We have -XX- stamina shots left.
I'm afraid we don't have any stamina shots left...
Oh... that felt good...
Single Round Shot
Three-round burst
Hold Fire
Ok, let's tune the gun.
The rifle doesn't have enough ammo to fire a three-round burst.
The gun doesn't have any ammo left.
The rifle doesn't have any ammo left.
Gotcha, one round at a time.
Three rounds for each bastard, roger that.
All right, I'll save some ammo.
My weapon is already full!
Reload 1 round
Reload 3 rounds
Full Reload (-XX- Rounds)
We can use the igniter's energy to refill our laser batteries.
Shit, the igniter doesn't have enough battery left to add -XX- rounds.
All right, I added -XX- extra rounds to the gun using the igniter's battery.
All right, I added -XX- extra rounds to the rifle using the igniter's battery.
Hey, I'm seeing some kind of little shrine!
Hum... I think I can see one of those shrines in the distance.
Time to catch our breath, there's an Op'mahun shrine right up ahead.
Look, we're getting close to one of those shrines.
We are fucked
My gun is empty!
The rifle has less than 3 bullets left! I'm switching to single shot mode!
You reached -XX- shrines.
The one who spent the most time leading was -XX-.
You've always been the main star.
Leave people behind and you'll climb faster. Just like real life.
There are no gods. It's always been just you.
Life needs no answers. Everything doesn't have to make sense.
This team is conveniently well balanced, don't you think?
Why do you keep trying? Are you having any fun?
Failure is just another step. Failure is never a loss.
Did you ever see them? The Federation? The Aliens?
Do you like hurting other people?
Stamina Loss:
Stamina Recovery:
Warmth Recovery:
Warmth Loss:
Gun ammo:
Rifle ammo:
Igniter battery:
Set Weapon...
Reload Weapon...
I hope you find the universe you long for.
Carried the Commitment Stone
Rejected the Commitment Stone
Commitment Shrine
You carried the Commitment Stone
You rejected the Commitment Stone
Granted love for Donald
Stayed on the original timeline
Regret Shrine
You granted love for Donald
You stayed on the original timeline
Warped Shaman to the peak
Kept Shaman in the group
Temptation Shrine
You warped Shaman to the peak
You kept Shaman in the group
Sacrificed Jack
Sacrificed Dr. Zenész
Sacrificed Sarah
Sacrificed Donald
Sacrificed Nobody
Sacrifice Shrine
You sacrificed Jack
You sacrificed Dr. Zenész
You sacrificed Sarah
You sacrificed Donald
You didn't sacrifice anyone
Concept Art: Environment Evolution
Beat the DLC in Easy Difficulty
Concept Art: Shaman & Liam
Beat the DLC in Original Difficulty
Concept Art: Dr. Zenész & Jack
Get to the peak with everybody alive
Concept Art: Sarah & Donald
Reject all the shrine offerings
Concept Art: Ship & Backgrounds
Don't use the doctor's shots on anyone
Concept Art: Shrine & Climb Backgrounds
Have Donald lead the climb more than anyone else
Illustration: To The Peak
Get to the peak in less than 32 turns
We recommend that you finish the game before-N-playing the extra chapter.-N-If you didn't, you'll see some spoilers-N-and you probably won't get what the hell is happening.
Let's do this.
I'm using an Op'mahun device to communicate with you from the future. Do you want to save the universe?
Warp 20 years into the future
Stay
Extra Chapter"}
