@Harry Potter und die Kammer des Schreckens, Developer: Eurocom, EA UK, Publisher: EA Games, November 2002, PC/Gamecube/PlayStation 2/XBox.

Harry Potter lived at number four, Privet Drive with his horrible Uncle and Aunt and their hateful son, Dudley.
Harry was often locked in his room and even though he was a wizard, he couldn't escape because he wasn't allowed to use magic when he was away from school.
One evening, a house-elf named Dobby appeared . . .
Dobby warned Harry not to return to Hogwarts.
Harry Potter must not go back to Hogwarts!
There is a plot to make most terrible things happen.
If Harry Potter goes back to Hogwarts, he will be in mortal danger.
Dobby disappeared and shortly after, Harry's best friend, Ron Weasley, and his brothers, Fred and George, arrived in a flying Ford Anglia to rescue Harry from his prison.
They flew him to their home, the Burrow, where Harry spent the rest of the summer, before travelling by Floo powder to Diagon Alley...
Harry met up with Ron's sister, Ginny, and went with her to Flourish and Blotts where the famous wizard author, Gilderoy Lockhart, was signing his latest book.
Great Scot!  Is that-?  No, surely, not!
It is!  It's Harry Potter!
<Crowd Ooos>
Ladies and gentlemen!  This is the perfect moment for me to make an important announcement!
I have great pleasure in announcing that I will be taking up the post of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts!
<Crowd Ahhs>
Bet you loved that, didn't you, Potter?  Famous Harry Potter.  Can't even go into a bookshop without making the front page.
Leave him alone; he didn't want all that!
Potter, you've got yourself a girlfriend!
I suppose your parents will go hungry for a month to pay for all the books you're going to need at Hogwarts.
Here, girl, take this one...
It's the least I can do to help out the poor and needy.
Harry we've missed the train!  The Hogwarts Express left five minutes ago!
Oh, no!  What are we going to do?
Well, I know that dad took the flying car to work this morning . . . It's parked in Charing Cross Road.
Okay.  It's our only chance of getting to school on time!
Yeeeaaarrrgh!
Ron?  Ron, where are you?
Over here, Harry!  The Whomping Willow's got me!
Don't worry, Ron - I'll come and get you!  Just hold on!
I can't do anything else!  Hurry up, Harry!
Harry, help!
Hurry! This branch is squeezing me like a snake!
To climb over low walls, I just have to walk into them.
I can open chests with the Alohomora spell.
To cast a spell, press and hold the left mouse button.
Those are Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans.  I should collect as many as I can, they'll come in handy later.
I can use this Gargoyle as a target to activate the Lumos spell.
The Lumos spell creates a temporary light to help navigate dark areas.
Try collecting the beans on all the ledges, Harry.
To jump, run to the ledge and press the right mouse button.
Alohomora can open up magically locked objects such as chests and secret doors.
Harry, you need to get onto this ledge over here.
You can cast Flipendo to push buttons and switches, Harry.
A Chocolate Frog!
Chocolate Frogs replenish some of your stamina. They also taste delicious!
Good Job, Harry! Now, see if you can cast Flipendo on this branch to get it off me.
I think I see a sensitive spot right there!
Cast Flipendo to push the block  towards me and then use it to jump to this ledge.
Not only does Lumos cast light, it also reveals magically hidden things!
This is a bronze Wizard card. There are 50 of these scattered throughout Hogwarts. Each time you collect 10 new bronze cards, you are given a permanent stamina increase!
You can cast Flipendo to push objects around the world.  Try casting Flipendo to push that trunk over to the ledge.
Lumos reveals illusions for what they really are!
Harry, its grip is getting tighter!
It might be whomping you, but it's squeezing me!
Ow!  This thing is crushing me alive!
Come on, Harry!
To move around the world, press the arrow keys.
Steer clear of those little whomping roots, Harry...they'll hurt you!
Then, move the mouse to aim the spell.  Once you see a spell symbol appear, you can then release the mouse button to cast the spell.
Pressing the Escape key will allow you to access the Folio Magi and look at the Wizard cards you've collected thus far.
Pressing Escape will also display your current gameplay objectives.
I bet I can cast Flipendo on that luggage to push it to that ledge.
The rain has stopped. At least we'll be dry when we get expelled.
Come on, we'd better get up to the school.
Good morning, Harry!
It's time for our Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson with Professor Lockhart.
I just love his books - he's such a brilliant writer.
Defence Against the Dark Arts on the Third Floor. Follow us!
Welcome to Defence Against the Dark Arts!  My fame makes an introduction unnecessary, but I'll delight you with one anyway.
I am Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weekly's Most- Charming-Smile Award!
I see you've all bought a complete set of my books. Well done!
Today we shall be learning the Rictusempra spell.
Rictusempra is very useful when stunning certain pesky creatures, such as Cornish pixies...
Who wants to be first? Harry Potter will you step down here please?
Lucky!
You've learned Rictusempra! You didn't do as well as I did the first time, but then, who could?
Now, how about a turn in the spell practice arena?
I'm always happy to give students beans.
Here you go.
Don't eat them all at once!
I've always been generous with my beans.
Don't be shy about coming around to my office to thank me for the beans.
Cream puff is my favourite flavoured bean.
I cannot get over how generous I am with Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans!
I once subdued a Hungarian Horntail with nothing but a sulphur flavoured Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans.
Try to get to it as quickly as you can. If the Challenge Timer reaches zero before you have the Completion Star, you lose the Challenge.
Welcome, Harry Potter, to my famous Rictusempra Challenge. To complete the Challenge, you must find the Completion Star, which will be found at the top of this tower.
Along the way you will find Challenge Stars. Collecting Challenge Stars. will boost your timer and score.  Try and find them all!
Try to get the Completion Star with as many seconds remaining as possible!  The higher your score is when you complete the Challenge, the more house  points I will award you!
Ready to begin? Good luck! 3,2,1 Go!
Welcome back, Harry Potter, to my Rictusempra Challenge!  If you can manage  to beat your high score, I will award you more House Points.
I'm sorry Harry, but you will have to do better before I can award you any more House Points.  I encourage you to come back and try again. If you can beat your personal high score, you will be awarded more House Points!
Congratulations, Harry Potter, you have mastered the Rictusempra Spell  Challenge! 50 points to Gryffindor!  You are welcome to continue playing this Challenge, but you will be awarded no more House Points
Well done, Mr. Potter, you have completed my Rictusempra Challenge!  The  remaining time now becomes your personal high score.
In addition to the House Points that I am about to award you, I encourage you to return and try to beat that score! Each time you are able to increase your high score, I will award you more House Points.
Next time try finding and picking up all of the Challenge Stars. They will help to boost your score!
Sorry, Harry, but you have run out of time, and must re-start!
Well done, Harry, you have set a new personal high score! You're almost as good as I was at your age!
That's a Giant Orange Snail. Avoid touching them or their slime trails - the acid that they secrete will burn you.  Harry, trust me, I know!  Rictusempra will stun them, and then you can use Flipendo to push them around.
Fire Crabs are nasty little pests that shoot hot flame out of, well... at you.  You can stun them by casting Rictusempra on them.  Then you can use Flipendo to push them around.
This indicates that a Fire Crab placed on or nearby the symbol will cause something to happen in the world, Harry.  Try and use Flipendo to push the Fire Crab onto this plate.
Now, THAT is a Cornish pixie. Troublesome and annoying creatures, they are.  If they touch you, they will bite, so try to avoid them!  Rictusempra will stun them.
Gnomes are a greedy lot. They will try to steal your Bertie Bott's Beans.
Flipendo will push them onto their backs and cause them to drop anything they might have stolen.   You can also pick up gnomes and throw them around!  Throw them into a Gnome hole to permanently get rid of them.
That is a Gnome hole. This is where Gnomes come from and where they go to deposit stolen goods.  Throw gnomes into these holes to permanently get rid of them.  You cannot climb into them.
See if you can find a way to get these three pictures to match up with the picture on the door.
Back again, Harry? Well, you have already mastered the Rictusempra Challenge, so I can not award you any more House Points.
However, I can see that you want to be the very best. I like that in a wizard, Harry.  Good luck!
Good run, Harry!
Harry! There you are. Glad I found you!
Hello, Wood.
Time for Quidditch Practice, Harry. None of the other teams have started training yet, so we'll have a good head start!
But I haven't had lunch yet!
You can eat later. Follow me to the Quidditch Pitch.
Excellent work, everyone. You're back on form, Potter, which means we've got a great chance of winning the cup this year.
Aren't you finished yet, Harry?
Just about, I think.
Don't look now -- but here comes the Slytherin team.
I don't believe it!  I booked the pitch for today!
Hey, they've got new brooms -- and it looks like... yes they are!  They're Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones!
Yeah, I know. Apparently Lucius Malfoy made a very generous donation...
Like our new brooms, Weasley?
What are you doing here, Malfoy?
I'm the Slytherin Seeker now didn't you know?  Perhaps someday Gryffindor will be able to afford new brooms.
Well, at least no one on the Gryffindor team had to buy their way in.  They got in on pure talent.
No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood.
You'll pay for that one, Malfoy!
Well, at least I could afford it, Weasley - unlike you.
Leave it, Ron.  He's not worth the trouble.
It's time for Potions class with Professor Snape! We don't want to be late...you know what he's like.
It's down in the dungeons.  Follow me!
Harry Potter!  How thoughtful of you to join us, we've missed you.  If you're late again, you'll miss the House Points I'll deduct!
Now pay attention!  Today, you will attempt to learn the art of mixing one of the most useful potions ever concocted...the Wiggenweld potion.
A Wiggenweld potion will restore some of your lost stamina.  Even a single bottle is capable of healing the most grievous wounds.
Potter!  You have just volunteered to show the rest of the class how this is done.  Get up here immediately!
Where are you going boy? Get back over here and complete your lesson!
Before that lecture, I thought I knew everything I wanted to about Flobberworm Mucous. And I was right.
Well, I thought he touched on some interesting aspects.
Let's get going before Snape comes out.
Come... come to me... let me rip you...
What was that?
What was what?
That voice.  It was coming from over there -- c'mon...
Ugh! That's horrible.
What's going on?
Enemies of the Heir, beware!  You'll be next, Mudbloods!
She's been Petrified.  But how, I cannot say.
And now I would like everybody to please return to their dormitories.  There's nothing else to see here.
C'mon, Harry.  Professor Dumbledore's right.  There's nothing more to see here.
We have to get to Charms Class, Harry. And I have an idea...
An idea about what?
We should ask Professor Flitwick about the Chamber of Secrets. He's bound to know something. Let's go!
Well done, Mr. Potter, you've successfully learned Skurge!
Now it's time for you to test your newly learned knowledge in the Skurge Spell Challenge!
They're starting a Duelling Club and the first meeting is today!
Come to the Great Hall if you want to learn how to duel.
Hi Harry.
Hi! I found some bicorn horn to add to the potion.
Great. I'm still trying to find the location of the next ingredient, but I should have it tracked down soon.  In the meantime I'll go add this to the potion.
That could be interesting.
Can everyone see me?  Can you all hear me?  Excellent!
Welcome to the Wizard Duelling Club where I shall be training you all up in case you ever need to defend yourselves.
In Wizard Duelling the object of the exercise is to incapacitate your opponent.
All duels will take place here in the Great Hall and you will only be able to use the following spells when duelling.
These spells are: Rictusempra, Mimblewimble and Expelliarmus.
All duellists must wager Bertie Bott's beans before entering.  The more difficult the duel, the more beans must be wagered.
And now for a brief demonstration.  Mr. Potter...
...if you'd like to partner up with Mr. Weasley?
I don't think so.  Time to split up the dream team, I think.  Mr. Malfoy, come over here.
Let's see what you can make of the famous Potter.
Very well, then.  Wands at the ready!  When I count to three!
Scared, Potter?
You wish.
One-two-three!
Stop!
What was that?
Did Harry just...hiss?
Oh my! That couldn't have been...
It couldn't be! Not him!
You're a Parselmouth, Harry.  You can talk to snakes!
Why does it matter?
It matters, Harry, because being able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was famous for.
Oh, no...
Exactly.  Now the whole school's going to think you're his great-great-great-great-grandson or something...
But I'm not!
Anyway - we'll see you later, Harry.
Bye, Harry.
I won't be seeing you in Herbology class. I'll be in Moaning Myrtle's Bathroom working on the Polyjuice Potion.
Herbology class... I almost forgot! We'd better get outside to the greenhouse, Harry. Come on!
I can't believe Hermione is skipping class!  Well, we better get outside to Herbology, Harry. Come on!
Oh, no -- not another attack...
Mr. Potter-
What's happened here?
I don't know -- I found him like this.
Follow me, Potter.
Professor, I swear I didn't-
This is out of my hands, Potter.
Good evening, Harry.
Professor--your bird. I couldn't do anything----he just caught fire.
Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry.  Phoenixes burst into flame when it is time for them to die and are reborn from their ashes.
Fascinating creatures, phoenixes.  They can carry immensely heavy loads-
-their tears have healing powers and they make highly faithful pets.
Professor, I just want you to know that it wasn't me. I'm not the attacker.
It wasn't you, what, Harry?
It wasn't me that -- I mean -- I'm not the attacker.
I know you're not.  But I still want to talk to you.
I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything you'd like to tell me.
Being able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was famous for...
Anything at all?
No.  There isn't anything, Professor.
Very well, if you're sure.
Good night, Harry.
Night, Professor.
This is bad, Harry.
I feel very uncomfortable being in a girls' bathroom.
Oh, Ron, there won't be anyone in here.
What about Moaning Myrtle -- she'll be in here, won't she?
I wish people would stop interrupting my peace and quiet!  I do have feelings, you know, even if I am dead...
She's very touchy, isn't she?
What's that horrible stink, Hermione?
That will be the Polyjuice Potion-
-- once you've given me the ingredients, Harry.
Now - we need one more ingredient for the Potion to be completely effective.
We're going to need a bit of Goyle to complete the Potion.
That's disgusting.
But how will I find Goyle?
At this time he's usually filling his face down in the dungeons.
All you need to do is follow the trail of food, get the bit of Goyle and bring it back here to me.
Good luck, Harry.
Er, thanks, Ron.
There's Goyle... I'd better follow him.
I've got the bit of Goyle.
Well done, mate.
There you go.
Rather you than me.
Thanks.
Urgh...
Harry!
Eurgh!  That's disgusting!
Are you okay, er, Harry?
Yeah.  I'm fine.
Go down to the dungeons and see if you can get into the common room.
Okay.
Good luck, er, Harry.
You know, Goyle, I suppose Dumbledore's trying to hush up all these attacks. He'll be sacked if they don't stop soon.
And as for Saint Potter, he's another one with no proper wizard feeling.  And people think he's Slytherin's Heir!
I wish I knew who it is.  I could help them.
You must have some idea who's behind it all...
You know I haven't, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?
But I know one thing -- last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened a Mudblood girl died.
So I bet it's a matter of time before one of them's killed this time.  I hope it's Granger.
Anyway, er, Draco, I'd best be going.
Going where?
Er, to the -- hospital wing -- yes, that's it, the hospital wing. I've got a stomach-ache and I...I need to get something for it...
Go on, then.  I don't want you hanging around here all night with that pained expression on your face.
I'd better get out of here -- and fast.
There you are Goyle!  I've been looking all over for you.
Come on follow me.
Hurry, Harry! It's time for our Defence Against Dark Arts class!
Not his class again?
It'll be wonderful! Professor Lockhart is going to teach us Spongify!
Hey Harry, something has really upset Moaning Myrtle!
You mean more than usual?
I could hear her wailing all the way from the grand staircase.  And the corridor outside her bathroom is flooded again.
You don't think someone else has been attacked, do you?
Anything could have happened. Come on, let's go see what's up.
Riddle might have had the wrong person. Maybe some other monster was attacking people.
How many monsters d'you think this place can hold?
We always knew Hagrid was expelled, and the attacks must've stopped then. Otherwise, Riddle wouldn't have got his award.
Riddle's diary...it's  gone.
What?!?
But... only a Gryffindor could have stolen it. Nobody else knows our password.
Exactly.
Kill this time ... let me rip ... tear. .
The voice! I just heard it again -- didn't you?
I didn't hear anything.
Harry -- I think I've just understood something! I've got to go to the library!
But McGonagall said we have to stay in here unless we're in class...
And I've got to talk to Hagrid. If he set the monster loose last time, he knows how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets.
Well, I'm not staying here by myself. I'm going with you.
Sshh. I just saw someone who looks very much like Lucius Malfoy coming into Hagrid's hut.
Bad business, Hagrid.  A very bad business, indeed. Things have gone far enough.
As chairman of the school governors I've simply got to act and send you away.
Away?  Away to where?  Not the wizard prison -- not Azkaban?
I'm afraid so.
A dreadful thing, Dumbledore, but all twelve of the governors feel it's time for you to step aside.
As of this moment, you are suspended as Headmaster of Hogwarts.
If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of course step aside.
No!
However, you will find that I will only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me.
You will also find that help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it.
O'course, if anyone wanted ter find out some stuff, all they'd have ter do would be ter follow the spiders. That'd lead 'em right!
That's the key to the whole thing and that's all I'm sayin'.
Come along now, Hagrid.
Alright, I'm comin'.
We're in trouble now.  No Dumbledore.  There'll be an attack a day with him gone.
Look! Over there!
Looks like they're heading for the Forbidden Forest...
Amazing work, Harry!
And look, I found Dad's car! But Hermione's been attacked! She's been Petrified like the others!
Oh no! We should get back as soon as possible!
Climb in!
Wow, Harry! That's some achievement to have defeated Aragog!
At least I learned something from Lockhart's class. Rictusempra!
I have to visit Hermione in the hospital wing! It's on the highest floor in the Grand Staircase.
I better not let Madam Pomfrey see me.
There's Hermione! What's that she's holding? It's a note, in her handwriting!
Here's what it says...
Of the many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam our land, there is none more deadly than the basilisk,  the King of Serpents.
This snake, which may reach gigantic size and live hundreds of years, is born from a chicken's egg, hatched beneath a toad.
Aside from its deadly and venomous fangs, the basilisk has a horrible stare, and all who are fixed with the beam of its eye shall suffer instant death.
Spiders flee before the basilisk, for it is their mortal enemy. The basilisk flees only from the crowing of the rooster, which is fatal to it.
But how's the basilisk been getting around the place?  A giant snake?  Someone would've seen...
Pipes... Ron, it's been using the plumbing!  I've been hearing that voice inside the walls...
...That girl who died... Aragog said she was found in a bathroom.
What if she never left the bathroom? What if she's still there?
You don't think--not Moaning Myrtle?
The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets! What if it's in...
Moaning Myrtle's bathroom!
Moaning Myrtle's bathroom!
All students are to return to their House dormitories at once. All  teachers return to the staff room. Immediately, please.
Oh no! Not another attack!
In you go. Don't muss your hair.
But...but...
Now!
Let's go, Harry!
Here I come!
Harry -- there's something up there.
Maybe it's asleep.
Blimey.
It's a gigantic snakeskin.
I-I feel faint...
Ron!
The adventure ends here, boys!
Say goodbye to your memories!  Obliviate!
Ron!  Are you okay?  Ron?
I'm here!  I'm okay -- go and find Ginny, Harry!
Wait there with Lockhart.  If I'm not back in an hour... Anyway, see you in a bit!
Hello, Harry.
Professor Dumbledore! I thought you'd been suspended.
Lucius Malfoy had threatened to curse the board if they didn't remove me. But they decided to stand up to him.
Now that the Heir is gone and the basilisk is destroyed, they know Hagrid is innocent, too. He'll be back in his hut soon.
What about Lucius Malfoy? Will he cause any more trouble?
I doubt it. We can assume it was him who got the diary to Ginny. He daren't do it again unless he wants the Ministry of Magic after him.
About Professor Lockhart...I'm afraid he's lost his memory.
Oh dear. What will he think about now that he can't think about himself?
Just don't give his job to Professor Snape. He's too...um, valuable as a Potions teacher.
You've all performed brilliantly. It must have been a terrible experience.
It was. We spent much more time in a girl's bathroom than I would have liked.
Being Petrified was awful, but I learned a great deal from it. I'm going to write a paper about it for extra credit.
When you've got your friends to help you, you can accomplish anything, and nothing is too awful.
Well, almost nothing. Looking like Goyle came close.
There's a banquet waiting for you downstairs. What do you propose for the first toast?
To friendship...
...Loyalty...
...and courage. But to friendship most of all!
Welcome to Charms class. Today we shall be learning the Skurge charm.
Yes, Miss Granger?
I was wondering if you could tell us something about the Chamber of Secrets.
I deal with charms, Miss Granger, not myths and legends.
Please, Professor, we all want to hear.
Oh, very well...
There were four founders of Hogwarts: Godric Gryffindor, Salazar Slytherin, Helga Hufflepuff, and Rowena Ravenclaw.
Slytherin wanted to admit only the wizard-born students to Hogwarts. The other founders refused and as a result, Slytherin left the school.
But, unknown to the other founders, Slytherin had built a secret chamber beneath the school...
...with a great monster to guard the chamber from within.
The legend states that one day, Slytherin's true Heir will return to open the chamber and control the horror within. And then, all who are not wizard-born will be purged from Hogwarts.
All nonsense, of course. Now, back to magic reality. Mr. Potter, perhaps you'd like to step forward and demonstrate Skurge for the class?
Glad to, Professor.
Yes, Miss Granger?
He built a secret chamber in the castle, of which the other founders knew nothing.
Serpensortia!
Leave me alone!
Welcome, Harry Potter, to my Skurge Challenge. To complete the Challenge, you must find the Completion Star, which can be found several floors below us.
Try to get to it as quickly as you can. If the Challenge Timer reaches zero before you have the Completion Star, you lose the Challenge
Along the way you will find Challenge Stars. Collecting Challenge Stars will boost your timer and score. I highly recommend you try to find all of them.
Try to get the Completion Star with as many seconds remaining as possible! The higher your score is when you complete the Challenge, the more House Points I will award you!
Ectoplasm is an unpleasant greenish substance left behind by certain ghostly beings. In some places, it will block doorways and openings. You can cast Skurge to get rid of it.
You can also cast Skurge to free items that have been trapped by Ectoplasm.
Ectoplasm takes away some of your stamina, Harry. The longer you are in contact with Ectoplasm, the more stamina you will lose.
Ectoplasm slows you down, Harry.  You can use Skurge to clean it up.
Sometimes Ectoplasm can help you, too, by trapping enemies. You might not want to use Skurge on it right away.
Ready to begin? Good luck!  Ready, set, go!
Welcome back, Harry Potter, to my Skurge Challenge!  If you can manage to beat your high score, I will award you more House Points.
Taking on the Skurge Challenge are you? Good show!
In my day, we had to take shovels to this stuff, you know.
Oh, pardon me, I didn't mean to interrupt your Skurging.
You know, after centuries, Ectoplasm begins to grow on you as well as on the walls.
Well, if it isn't spotty grotty snotty Potty-wotter! I like your name, it rhymes with so many insulting things
I was going to carve your likeness in Ectoplasm but it wasn't slimy enough to capture the real you.
Why don't you fall on your back and make an Ectoplasm angel?
This block is stuck in Ectoplasm!  I'll need to use Skurge to clear the Ectoplasm away before I'll be able to move it.
Dear me, Mr. Potter,  I'm afraid that you must do better before I can award you any more House Points.  I encourage you to come back and try again. If you can beat your personal high score, you will be awarded more House Points!
Congratulations, Harry Potter, you have mastered the Skurge Spell Challenge!  50 points to Gryffindor!  You are welcome to continue playing this Challenge, but you will be awarded no more House Points.
It's stuck.
The door's stuck.
Oh, no, it's Peeves!
It's Peeves again.
There's Ectoplasm everywhere!
I'd better be careful.
Better hurry.
It's Nearly-Headless Nick!
It's Nick.
It's the Fat Friar.
Hello, Friar.
Don't want to get any Ectoplasm on me.
Well done, Mr. Potter. You have completed my Skurge Challenge!  The remaining time now becomes your personal high score.
In addition to the House Points that I am about to award you, I encourage you to return and try to beat that score! Each time you are able to increase your high score, I will award you more House Points.
Next time, try finding and picking up all of the Challenge Stars. They will help to boost your score!
Sorry, Mr. Potter, but you have run out of time.
Welcome back, Mr. Potter.  You have already mastered the Skurge Challenge so I cannot award you any more House Points.
However, feel free to go through the Challenge again.
Sorry, Mr. Potter, but you have run out of time, and must re-start!
Well done, Mr. Potter!
I say, you're the best Skurger that Gryffindor has had since the 1790s. Or was that the 1970's?
Now, THAT is a Cornish pixie.  Troublesome and annoying creatures, they are.  If they touch you, they will bite, so try to avoid them!  Rictusempra will stun them.
Booo!
This door is blocked by Ectoplasm!
Surprise!!
That pit is full of Ectoplasm!
Haha!
Keep at it, Harry! Gryffindor is counting on you!
Gotcha!
I'm glad you're clearing out this Ectoplasm. It can make floating through walls end with a nasty surprise.
Sliding in Ectoplasm is really quite a giggle for us ghosts, but you shouldn't do it.
Very well done indeed, Mr. Potter. You have set a new personal high score!
Welcome to second year Herbology, everyone!  And for those of you who have forgotten, I am Professor Sprout.
Let's dig right in, shall we? Today, I'll teach you Diffindo, the severing charm.
Harry Potter, would you like to plant your feet in front of class and be the first to learn the spell?
I'd be glad to, Professor Sprout.
Taking a leaf from Hermione's book, aren't you?
You have learnt Diffindo, Harry!  We've planted a seed of greatness here today!
Now let's move on to the Diffindo Challenge!
Welcome, Harry Potter, to my Diffindo Challenge. To complete the Challenge, you must find the Completion Star, which can be found in a hallway just above you.
Try to get to it as quickly as you can. If the Challenge Timer reaches zero before you have the Completion Star, you lose the Challenge.
Along the way you will find Challenge Stars. Collecting Challenge Stars will boost your timer and score. I highly recommend you try to find all of them.
Try to get the Completion Star with as many seconds remaining as possible! The higher your score is when you complete the Challenge, the more House Points I will award you!
Some vines and plant growth can cover doorways and openings.  You can use Diffindo to cut through them and clear your path.
Diffindo can also cut ropes that will release objects.
Diffindo can be used against certain creatures.
Horklump Mushrooms can give off a cloud of poisonous gas, Harry.  Avoid them, or use Diffindo to cut their stems.
Once you have separated a Horklump from its stem, you can pick it up and throw it.
Spiky Prickly Plants shoot their spikes when you get too close.  Avoid them or use Diffindo to cut their stems.
That is a Venemous Tentacula.  Don't let them get near you, their bite is very nasty!  Diffindo can be used to both stun the creature and sever its arms.
Bowtruckles are tree spirits that guard Wiggentrees. Cast Diffindo on them to make them disappear.
Well done, Mr. Potter, you have completed my Diffindo Challenge!  The remaining time now becomes your personal high score.
Congratulations, Mr. Potter!  You have mastered the Diffindo Challenge.  50 Points to Gryffindor!  Feel free to come back again, but you will be awarded no more House Points.
Sorry, Mr. Potter.  You have run out of time.
I'm sorry, Mr. Potter.  You will have to reach a better score in order for me to award more House Points to you.
Welcome back, Harry Potter.  If you manage to beat your high score, I will award you more House Points.  Good luck with the Challenge!
Well done, Harry!
Diffindo can be used to cut other things too, Harry.  Try it on that Spider Web.
Ready to begin? Good luck!  Ready, set, go!
Those small spiders can be squashed by walking on them.
Well, hello, Mr. Potter.  You have already mastered the Diffindo Challenge, so I can not award you any more House Points.
We have plenty of students who come back again and again, however.  Good luck!
Great job, Mr. Potter!  You have set a new personal high score!
Welcome back to your favourite class, Gryffindor students!
Please hold your applause while we learn to Spongify!
Harry Potter! You look eager to soak up a little knowledge! Step up in front of class and we'll show 'em how it's done!
Lucky me.
Welcome, Harry Potter, to the Spongify Challenge. To complete the Challenge, you must find the Completion Star, which can be found several floors above us.
Try to get to it as quickly as you can. If the Challenge Timer reaches zero before you have the Completion Star, you lose the Challenge.
Along the way you will find Challenge Stars. Collecting Challenge Stars will boost your timer and score. I highly recommend you try to find all of them.
Try to get the Completion Star with as many seconds remaining as possible! The higher your score is when you complete the Challenge, the more House Points I will award you!
Spongify Carpets are hidden throughout Hogwarts. You can cast Spongify on them and they will propel you to a higher area when you jump on them.
Look for this symbol on the ground to find hidden Spongify Pads.
Well done, Harry!  You've completed my Spongify Challenge. The remaining time now becomes your personal high score.
Welcome back, Harry Potter, to my Spongify Challenge!  If you can manage  to beat your high score, I will award you more House Points.
Congratulations, Harry Potter, you have mastered my Spongify Spell  Challenge!  50 points to Gryffindor!  You are welcome to continue  playing this Challenge, but you will be awarded no more House Points
Imps are vicious little creatures. Like gnomes, you use Flipendo to knock them back, then you can pick them up and throw them into a hole to get rid of them.
Nice one, Harry!  You have set a new personal high score!
Can't get enough of the Spongify Challenge, can you?  You have already mastered it, so I can not award you any more House Points.
Feel free to go through it again, Harry.  Ready, set, go!
Good job, Harry!
I'm sorry Harry, but you will have to do better before I can award you any more House Points.
Spongify pads can appear also from a patch of ground having the same symbol.
Who's that?  Come to throw something else at me?
Someone threw something at you?
Yes, they did.  It's over there...
Careful!  My dad told me some books can be very dangerous.
Well, we won't find out unless we look at it.
It looks like an old diary.  Belonged to 'T.M. Riddle'...
Whoever he was, he didn't write in it.  It's completely blank.
I wonder why someone wanted to try and get rid of it then?  Weird.
As Harry examined Riddle's Diary, words began to form on the page...
Hello, Harry Potter. My name is Tom Riddle.
And Harry replied...
I'm at Hogwarts and horrible stuff's been happening.  Do you know about the Chamber of Secrets?
Of course I know about the Chamber of Secrets.  In my fifth year, the Chamber was opened and the monster killed a girl.
I caught the person who'd opened the Chamber and he was expelled.  I can show you, if you like.
I can take you inside my memory of the night when I caught him.
Harry was entranced by the memory Tom Riddle showed him...
C'mon, gotta get yeh outta here... C'mon now... in the box...
It's alright, c'mon out... there ya go...
Evening, Rubeus.
What yer doin' down here, Tom?
It's all over.  I don't think you meant to kill anyone.  But monsters don't make good pets.
It never killed no one!
Come on.  The least Hogwarts can do is make sure the thing that killed that girl is slaughtered.
It wasn't him!  He wouldn't!  He never!
Stand aside.
NOOOOOOO!!
Harry - what's-?
It was Hagrid, Ron.  Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty years ago.  I've got to go and see him...
Aragog! A human is here!
Is it Hagrid?
No, I am a friend of Hagrid's. I came to help him.
Why does Hagrid need help?
Some say that Hagrid released a monster long ago in Hogwarts.  It killed someone and it must have come back.
It was me he released but he sent me away. I've never gone back. And I've never hurt anyone in Hogwarts.
So you're not the guardian of the Chamber of Secrets.
No. The guardian is an ancient creature that spiders fear above all others.
It killed the girl in the bathroom, not I.
Thank you.  I think I should go now.
No you won't. I cannot deny my children such fresh meat. Goodbye, friend of Hagrid.
Thanks Harry, much appreciated.
Anyway, we'd better get a move on.  We don't want Professor Snape catching us out so late.
Oh No!
Come Back!
Great.  My dad won't be happy that I lost his flying car.
Finally, there's the Portrait of the Fat Lady. Give her the password and let's go to bed.
I thought you'd have the password.
Why would I have the password?
Why would I have it? I've been with you since we got here.
You're right. I bet I know who would have it...
There you are!
Right on time.
I heard the most incredible story about you two getting expelled over a flying car...
Hermione, please, we're tired. Could you just tell us what the password is?
Wattlebird.
There you two are. Brilliant entrance - got the year off with a bang! Mum's furious, by the way.
You two should hear about the bean trading system we've set up.
It's based on Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans.
Fred, myself, and several of our associates have set up trading opportunities throughout Hogwarts.
Some of us will occasionally have an item to trade. If you have enough beans, we'll trade with you.
Where are we supposed to get all these beans?
They're hidden all over the place.
It's hard not to find them. You should have enough to start trading in no time.
It'll be a pleasure doing business with you, I'm sure.
Argus Filch, the caretaker, was loathed by every student at Hogwarts.
Some thought his cat Mrs. Norris spied on students.
I'd better get out of here. Filch might be lurking nearby.
Well, well, well, I heard a crash and what do I find? Mr. Harry Potter and a broken, irreplaceable, antique vase.
Honestly, it just fell!!
Come ... come to me.... Let me rip you.... Let me tear you .... Let me kill you . . . .
What was that?
Eh? What're you talking about?
I heard a voice...
Hearing voices won't get you off! I'll mark this down against you. Now move along while I clean this up.
Back to break more valuable school property? I said move along!
I must have been hearing things.
Good morning everyone. For those of you who have trouble remembering names, I am Albus Dumbledore, Headmaster of Hogwarts.
Welcome to the very first weekly House Point Ceremony of the school year.
The House with the most points wins a visit to the bean bonus room. The length of the visit depends on how many more points they have over the second placed House.
I don't know...but I hope to find out!
I've heard there's a massive amount of Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans in there!
Lets take a look at the scores...
Hmm, it appears that Hufflepuff is in the lead.  Looks like you get to send someone into the bonus bean room!
Hmm, it appears that Ravenclaw is in the lead.  Looks like you get to send someone into the bonus bean room!
Hmm, it appears that Slytherin is in the lead. Draco, it looks like you get a chance to collect some beans!
Hmm, It appears that Gryffindor is in the lead.  Harry, it looks like you get to visit the bonus bean room!
That's okay, Harry will win the next one.
Good luck, and remember you only have a limited time to collect beans.
Hello everyone.  Looks like it's time for another House Point Ceremony.
How many times have YOU been in Potter?  Heh, better luck next time!
Lets see which House is ahead this week...
Harry, the weekly House Point Ceremony is about to start!
You don't want to miss it!
Follow me and I'll show you where it is!
The weekly House Point Ceremony is starting soon.
You remember where it is, don't you?
The weekly House Point Ceremony is going to start soon. I don't think Gryffindor has enough House Points to win!
I hope somebody earns some more points before it starts.
I hope Slytherin doesn't win the weekly House Point Ceremony.
I wouldn't mind Hufflepuff winning the weekly House Point Ceremony, for once.
Hey Hermione! I found a bunch of shredded boomslang skin for the Polyjuice Potion.
That's great, Harry. I'll go add it to the potion right now.
A Bronze Wizard card!
This is the first card in a set of ten Bronze Wizard cards!
A Silver Wizard card!
I got all of the Gold Wizard cards!
Harry Potter, you have discovered all 101 of the mystical Wizard cards.
That is quite an achievement Harry, congratulations!!
Ron's waiting for me at the main doors.
It's a nice night now that the rain has stopped.
Look at all the Stars!
Can't get in that way.
I can't get out that way.
I hope Ron didn't get lost.
This door is locked tight.
I hope my shoes aren't getting muddy. Messing up the floor would get me in REAL trouble.
I bet the grounds are locked up tight.
There's Ron!
The dormitory is up here Harry.
I'm supposed to go to the Gryffindor dormitory.
I think I remember where the dormitory is.
I wonder where Hagrid is. Out in his hut, I suppose.
This door is locked.
No getting through this door just now.
I wonder why this door is locked? Oh, well.
The Gryffindor dormitory is just over here to the right, remember?
Once inside the Common Room, Harry was greeted by the cheers of his fellow Gryffindors.
Harry and Ron became Gryffindor heroes due to their little accident with the Whomping Willow.
Harry slept well that night and looked forward to his first day at Hogwarts.
Come on, Harry, no hanging back.
Make sure you save some of that energy for practice, Harry!
Hurry, Harry, let's go!
Keep running, Harry! It'll get you warmed up for Quidditch Practice!
I have to meet Oliver Wood at the Quidditch Pitch outside.
Harry! Defence Against the Dark Arts is up here!
Don't be late!
I'm supposed to go to my Defence Against the Dark Arts class on the Third Floor.
Try to hurry, Harry! We'll get to see Gilderoy Lockhart in person.
I'm in no rush to listen to Lockhart, but we still have to hurry!
This way, Harry!
Clear your mind completely, Harry...don't even think about me...and concentrate on the symbol in front of you.
See the wand?  It's going to move its way around the symbol.
At the exact point when the wand passes over the arrows, hit the corresponding arrow key.
This exercise has 3 parts. You must hit all of the arrows correctly in order to progress to the next round. Ready to try?
Well done, Harry, you've advanced to the next round!
5 points to Gryffindor!
10 points to Gryffindor!
15 points to Gryffindor!
Fabulous work, Harry! Aren't you glad you've learned from the likes of me? You've now completed the exercise.
Alright, Harry, I believe you have done enough.
Round 1, go!
Round 2, go!
Round 3, go!
Sorry, Harry, but you're going to have to be a little more accurate in your targeting.  Ready to give it another go?
Keep it up! You're almost as good as I!
Great targeting, Harry. You are approaching my calibre.
Too bad, old chum. Not everyone can be as talented as I am. Want to try again?
Watch the pointer as it makes it's way around the symbol.
Keep your eye on the ball as it travels over the arrows.
Very close!
Try again, Harry.
Once again.
Try another round.
Watch the icon as it goes around the symbol.
At the exact point when the pointer passes over the arrows, hit the corresponding arrow key.
When the icon passes over the arrows, hit the corresponding arrow key.
I need to go to the House Point Ceremony. It's by the Entrance Hall.
Over here, Harry!
I need to go through the dungeon corridor blocked with Ectoplasm to find some powdered bicorn horn.
I need shredded boomslang skin. Once I've learned Diffindo, I will be able to find some through a door blocked by vines near Herbology class.
Hurry, Harry! Snape might deduct House Points if we're even a second late!
I have to get to Potions class in the dungeon. The door to the dungeon is in the Entrance Hall.
In this chest are the two ingredients of Wiggenweld potion, Flobberworm Mucous and Wiggentree bark. Take them out.
Now walk up to the cauldron. Try not to touch the potion, I don't want it contaminated.
Observe Mr. Potter adding the ingredients to the cauldron and mixing them. Careful, Potter, you don't want to lose House Points.
Mr. Potter now has a Wiggenweld potion. To drink the potion, press space bar. Back to your seat, Potter.
Those of you who are adventurous or, more probably, clumsy, will no doubt want to make Wiggenweld potions on your own.
Therefore, there are cauldrons like this one throughout Hogwarts. They are the ONLY cauldrons in which Wiggenweld potions can be made.
And the ingredients, Flobberworm Mucous and Wiggentree bark, can also be found throughout Hogwarts.
Now for today's lecture: The history of Flobberworm Mucous extraction...
Mudblood... the nasty name some wizards use for other wizards who were born to non-magical parents.
And speaking of mud, October arrived damply at Hogwarts, spreading a soggy chill over the grounds and into the castle.
A different kind of chill would soon set in as well...
Harry lay awake for hours that night, wondering...
Could he be a descendant of Salazar Slytherin?
Everyone at Hogwarts was disturbed by the attack on Mrs. Norris and the mysterious words scrawled on the wall. Rumors and speculation spread...
Hermione, in particular, was especially affected. Ron and Harry became sure that she was up to something...but whatever it was, she remained tight-lipped.
Hello, Harry!
Oh, hello Nick!
Even after all these years, I still find new secrets in Hogwarts!
Here's a special area that you can unlock only if you collect all 40 Silver Wizard cards.
For every ten Silver Wizard cards you collect, you'll get a key that will allow you to open one of the 4 locks on the door.
See if you can find all 40 Silver Wizard cards hidden throughout Hogwarts and the Grounds.
I see you haven't quite found all the Silver Wizard cards yet. The door is still locked.
I'm so anxious to see what's behind this door!  I just know you can find all the Silver Wizard cards, Harry!
Hello again, Harry!  Having any luck finding all the Silver Wizard cards?
Good luck finding all 40 Silver Wizard cards.
I saw Draco trying to get through this door, but he didn't have all 40 Silver Wizard cards.
Did I mention that you need to find all 40 Silver Wizard cards to open this door?
You did it!
I've completed a set!
I've completed the silver set!
Gryffindor Wins!
Congratulations! The reward room is now open for you.
Collect as many beans as possible before the time runs out.
Slytherin Wins!
Hufflepuff Wins!
Ravenclaw Wins!
I started Duelling Club to train you to defend yourselves. Duelling Club meets every day in the antechamber just outside the Great Hall.
There are three spells you may use in duelling:
Rictusempra, which knocks your opponent back and reduces stamina.
Mimblewimble, which prevents your opponent from accurately casting their next spell.
Expelliarmus, which reflects spells back onto your opponent.
To select a spell, scroll through them by using the space bar or the right mouse button.
To cast a selected spell on your opponent, press the left mouse button. You may build up the strength of Rictusempra and Mimblewimble by holding the left mouse button down.
Note that potion drinking and jumping during duels are prohibited!
A pledge of Bertie Bott's Every Flavoured Beans is required to duel. The victor wins the opponent's beans.
To Challenge a student to a duel, simply walk up to them. If you have enough beans you will be invited to duel.
My assistant, Professor Snape...
I am your colleague, not your assistant.
...has informed me that he knows a tiny bit about duelling and has graciously agreed to monitor the duels.
Thrashing you will be a treat, Potter.
Hurry up, Harry, we don't want to be late for Charms!
THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED. ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE.
Get a move on, Harry!
Coming, Hermione!
I'm supposed to go to my Charms class on the second Floor.
This exercise has 3 levels. In each level, you must accurately hit all of the arrows in order to progress. Ready to try?
Try not to focus on all this Chamber of Secrets balderdash...concentrate on the symbol in front of you.
The wand is about to move its way around the symbol.
At the exact point when the wand passes over the arrows, you'll need to hit the corresponding arrow key.
15 points to Gryffindor
10 points to Gryffindor
5 points to Gryffindor!
Well done, Harry, you've advanced to the next level of the lesson.
Give it another try.
Try again, dear fellow.
Careful, don't lose your concentration.
Don't waver, Harry, you almost have it down.
Round 1, go!
Round 2, go!
Round 3, go!
This exercise has 3 levels. In each level, you must successfully hit all of the arrows in sequence. Ready to try?
Well done! You've completed all of the necessary exercises!
Sorry, Harry, but you're going to have to be a little more precise than that. Ready to try again?
Alright, Mr. Potter, that's quite enough for today.
Watch as the pointer moves its way around the symbol.
Watch closely as the icon moves its way around the symbol.
At the exact point when the icon passes over the arrows, you'll need to hit the corresponding arrow key.
At the exact point when the pointer passes over the arrows, you'll need to hit the corresponding arrow key.
I bet I can find one of the ingredients I'm looking for in here...
Looks like some sort of gigantic potion-making machine.
What a creepy place. I bet Snape loves it here.
I hope Snape doesn't store smelly old ingredients back here.
Each of these buttons will cause a row of doors to change position.  I think I need to try and create a path so that I can get to this exit...
I'd better hurry to the House Point Ceremony. It's by the Entrance Hall.
The House Point Ceremony will be starting any second now!
I hope we're not late for the House Point Ceremony.
Maybe I should go see what this duelling club is all about. The Great Hall is by the Entrance Hall.
Now, Mr. Potter, please fix your gaze on the symbol in front of you.
See the pointer? It's about to move its way around the shape.
When the pointer passes directly over the arrow, press the corresponding arrow key.
This exercise is in 3 parts. In each part, you must be accurate in order to progress. Ready to try?
Well done, Harry, you've moved on to the next level of the lesson.
5 points to Gryffindor!
10 points to Gryffindor!
15 points to Gryffindor!
Concentrate, Harry!
Keep going, Harry...you're really blossoming as a wizard!
Concentrate...don't let your effort wither on the vine.
Round 1, go!
Round 2, go!
Round 3, go!
Well done! You've completed all of the exercises in top form!
You need a tad more accuracy in order to progress forward.
Sorry, Harry, but you're going to have to do better than that to get to the next level. Ready to try again?
Alright, Mr. Potter, I think you've done enough for today.
Try again, Mr. Potter.
Once again.
Keep trying!
Give it one more try.
Give it all you've got this time!
This is a particularly nasty variety of spider.  Their bites are extremely poisonous, so stay away and cast Rictusempra to stun them.
There, I have all the ingredients for the Polyjuice Potion!
I'd better take them to Hermione in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom.
I have to take the Polyjuice Potion ingredients to Moaning Myrtle's bathroom.
I ought to head to Moaning Myrtle's bathroom and see how the Polyjuice Potion is coming along, I hope Hermione doesn't need any more ingredients.
Where are we going, Professor McGonagall?
You'll soon see. This is a matter for a higher authority.
We'd better hurry! If we're late, Sprout will deduct House Points!
No dawdling, Harry!
I need to get to my Herbology class outside in the greenhouse.
Hey, Harry, want to trade? We buy in bulk and pass the savings on to you.
Hey, Harry, want to trade? We have the best values in Hogwarts.
How about a trade, Harry?
Oi! Harry! Want to trade?
Would you be interested in trading?
Hi! Would you consider a trade?
What do you have?
I have Flobberworm Mucous, fresh and very nice, marked down.
Right here, I have Flobberworm Mucous. Sold some just like it to mum.
I have Flobberworm Mucous.
I have Flobberworm Mucous.
I have Flobberworm Mucous, as good as you'd find in Diagon Alley.
I have Flobberworm Mucous, for a limited time only.
Suit yourself. Don't know when I'll have these again, though.
The customer is always right, even in cases like this.
You're passing up a bargain, but have it your way.
Perhaps I'll have something you'll like next time.
You know best, Harry.
As you wish, but these are becoming hard to find.
Sorry, you haven't got enough beans left to buy anymore.
Too bad, but you don't have enough beans left to buy that.
Sorry, you don't have enough beans left anymore to buy that.
You haven't enough beans left to buy that. Sorry.
Sorry, you don't have enough beans left for that purchase.
So sorry. You really don't have enough beans left for that.
You are a most discerning shopper, Harry.
I'm sure you'll be happy with your purchase, Harry.
Your purchase will make you the envy of your friends, Harry.
No one in Slytherin has one of these. They'll be so jealous.
Thank you, Harry. We value your patronage.
Always glad to sell to you, Harry.
I have a Bronze Wizard card, free from misprints or curses.
I have a Bronze Wizard card, newly minted and highly collectable.
I have a Bronze Wizard card. It won't last long at these prices!
I have a Bronze Wizard card. I already have a prospective buyer, so you'd better act fast.
A Bronze Wizard card, previously owned by a little old witch who never took it out of her dungeon.
I have a Bronze Wizard card. It would be crown jewel of any collection.
I have a Nimbus 2001, the best model available to the general public.
I have Quidditch Armour, just like the Chudley Cannons wear.
I have Wiggentree Bark.
I have Wiggentree Bark, harvested within the last 24 hours.
I have Wiggentree  Bark, free of impurities and bark beetles.
I have Wiggentree Bark, still moist with dew.
I have a Silver Wizard card, never even shuffled before.
I have a Silver Wizard card, brand new. It still has that new card smell.
I have a Silver Wizard card, guaranteed not to tarnish.
I have a Silver Wizard card. Look at it shine!
A Silver Wizard card is what I have. Do we have a deal?
I have Wiggentree  Bark, finely shredded for easy mixing.
I can't give this stuff away! Come back when you have more beans.
Come back when you have some real beans to spend!
You need a few more beans before I can sell you anything.
You don't have enough beans, my friend. Come back when you collect some more.
I couldn't continue my business if I gave my wares away for that! Come back when you've got more beans.
As a business man, I can't sell you anything for that amount of beans. Talk to me when you have more.
Sure you won't reconsider? Ok, then.
Hmph. Your loss!
Alright! But you'll regret it later!
I was hoping to get rid of these, but oh well. You know best.
You're sure, then? Ok, I'll just have to take my business elsewhere for the time being.
Ah well. It's your choice, but I've got some choice merchandise here!
Great! You won't regret this one!
Good choice. You won't be disappointed, I guarantee.
Nice choice. You'll get much use out of that one, I promise you.
Fabulous choice. Thanks for the business.
Thanks for doing business with me.
I guarantee you'll get hours of enjoyment out of that purchase!
I've got here some great Wiggentree  bark for you!
I've got a brand new Silver Wizard card. Surely, you can't pass this offer up, now can you?
Can't buy that, I'm afraid. You've run too low on beans.
Sorry! I've run out of stock. You'll have to come back later.
Oh sorry! I just sold my very last item a moment ago.
I haven't got anything to trade at the moment. Come back later when I've had a chance to replenish my stock.
Sorry but you have just bought the very last item that I had to sell.
Sorry, old friend. I'm out of stock right now. Come back later.
Sorry, Harry. I haven't got anything to sell you at the moment.
Press on the Yes button to accept the trade, or the No button to decline.
Through this door, please, Potter.
This must be Professor Dumbledore's study!
It's the old school Sorting Hat.  I wondered where it was kept.
That bird looks sick.
It burst into flames!
You've been wondering whether I put you in the right house.  Yes, you were particularly difficult to place.
But I stand by what I said before - you would have done well in Slytherin.
Oh, my gosh!
There you are!  You need to go to Moaning Myrtle's Bathroom.  Hermione's waiting for you.
I'm going to get the smallest bit of Goyle I possibly can.
I'd better hurry and find Goyle.
I've got to find Goyle down in the dungeon. The way to the dungeon is through the Entrance Hall.
<snore> Huh?  What?  Who?
Harry Potter?!  What are you doing here??
...noisy pigs, can't you shut up?
I have to be careful to not wake Goyle....
I need to sneak up to Goyle and pluck a hair without him waking up.  I'd better avoid those pigs!  If they squeal, Goyle will wake up for sure!
<snore> <snore>
There he is - sleeping like a particularly ugly baby!
Easy does it.
I need to take the bit of Goyle back to Hermione in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom.
I really should be getting back to Hermione so she can mix the Polyjuice Potion.
That is the larger and meaner cousin of the Fire Crabs.  They belch out fire at an alarming rate, and will also periodically shoot a fireball that will bounce around and explode in a shower of flame.  Multiple castings of Rictusempra will stun them for a short period of time.
It looks like those doors are being held up in place by these bars.
Pure-blood!
Pure-blood!
Ah, so that's the password. I bet I can use that to get into the Slytherin Common Room.
There's something different about you, Goyle.  You don't look so cruel and stupid.
You don't want us to call for Professor Snape do you?
Rictusempra!
Flipendo!
Alohomora!
Lumos!
Diffindo!
Skurge!
<climbing up small step>
<climbing up large wall>
<ouch 1>
<ouch 2>
<ouch 3>
<scream as he falls into a bottomless pit>
I hope I got the right sort of bit. I don't want to come back for another.
Now I need to bring the bit of Goyle all the way back up to Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. What a trudge!
I'd better try to keep my distance from the Slytherin kids and sneak out. If they spot me in here...who knows what might happen?
Something's not right. Professor SNAPE!
Professor Snape, I thought I saw Harry Potter in here!
Professor Snape, I thought I saw a Gryffindor in here!
Got him!
Ah, Potter I do believe expulsion is in order!
Got him!
Got him!
Almost there...
The Polyjuice Potion is about to wear-off, I better get out of here, now!
Have fun Goyle. <evil snicker>
I need to find a way to stick the bridge together.
I bet Ectoplasm would do the trick.
Professor Snape!
Professor Snape!
I need to get out of here with out any of the Slytherins seeing me!
If I get too close I'll be seen.
I need to find some place to hide, quick!
If only I could find some more Ectoplasm, I bet I could use that to stick the bridge together again.
Were those the Gryffindor colours I just saw?
I must be seeing things, you look like a Gryffindor!
Harry Potter! No, he can't be in here!
Who are you?  Your'e not a Slytherin!
What are you doing down here?
You don't look familiar?
Hey, come back here!
I thought I saw Harry Potter in here!
I thought I saw a Gryffindor in here!
I thought I saw a Gryffindor in here!
I thought I saw Harry Potter in here!
Got him! ...Professor Snape!
Got him! ...Professor Snape!
Hey, come back here!
Who are you?  You're not a Slytherin!
Harry Potter? No! He can't be in here!
The news that Nearly Headless Nick had been Petrified spread through the school like a dark cloud when everyone got back from holiday.
If a ghost can be Petrified, the students thought, then no one is safe.
The first years moved around the castle in tight-knit groups, afraid they might be attacked if they ventured out alone.
A furious trade in talismans, amulets, and other protective devices was sweeping the school.
In the meantime, Harry had learned that Draco Malfoy was not the Heir of Slytherin.
But if it isn't Draco...and it isn't Harry...who is it?
Harry put the diary in his room for safekeeping; he couldn't think of what else to do with it.
Harry had always known that Hagrid had an unfortunate liking for large, monstrous creatures.
But he was equally certain that Hagrid would never mean to kill anybody...
Yes, there had been another attack, the worst one yet. This time, someone had disappeared...
It was Ginny Weasley! And another message was left on a wall. It said "Her skeleton will lie in the chamber forever." Hogwarts would surely close now.
Professor Lockhart had been given the task  of rescuing Ginny, but Ron and Harry were beside themselves with worry. They had to do something!
So they hurried toward the Gryffindor Common Room, where they could devise a plan...
The rest of the final term passed in a haze of blazing sunshine. Hogwarts was back to normal with only a few, small differences...
Defence Against the Dark Arts classes were cancelled and Lucius Malfoy had been sacked as a school governor.
Draco was no longer strutting around the school as though he owned the place. On the contrary, he looked resentful and sulky.
On the other hand, Ginny Weasley was perfectly happy again.
Hurry! We don't want to be late for Professor Lockhart's class!
What do you mean 'we'?
This way, Harry!
Round 1, go!
Concentrate on the symbol before you. Don't let my good looks distract you.
The wand that appears in front of you is going to move around the shape.
When the wand is positioned perfectly over the arrow, press the corresponding arrow key to hit the target.
There are 3 parts to this exercise. In each part, you must correctly and accurately hit all of the points in order to go forward.
5 points to Gryffindor!
10 points to Gryffindor!
15 points to Gryffindor!
Round 2, go!
You soak up knowledge almost as well as I do, Harry. You should be a natural at this!
Round 3, go!
Great work, lad! You've completed all of the exercises!
Unfortunately, your time wasn't quite as good as mine would've been.
Oh, too bad, poor chap. You didn't quite hit the required amount of points. Try it again, and this time, try to really impress me!
Alright, Harry, time to move along.
Amazing work, Harry! You've now advanced to a higher level of learning!
Terrific! Keep up the fabulous spell work!
Harry, you are nearly as talented as I. Although, I did have a much higher score on my first try, but that's another story.
Keep trying!
Try it again, chap.
Give it another go.
Once again, Harry.
Try another round.
Keep your eye on the icon as it makes its way around the symbol.
When the icon is positioned perfectly over the arrow, press the corresponding arrow key to hit the target.
Keep your eye on the pointer as it makes its way around the symbol.
When the pointer is positioned perfectly over the arrow, press the corresponding arrow key to hit the target.
You've done it, Harry! You have mastered Spongify!
So now you can take the Spongify Challenge!
Hagrid's hut is out in the grounds Harry, but you know that.
Hagrid's hut is just through here.
I've got to talk to Hagrid. He is out in his hut.
I have to visit Hermione in the hospital wing! It's on the highest floor in the Grand Staircase.
Hurry, Harry, we have to save Ginny!
We need to have a plan. I'll go to Moaning Myrtle's bathroom and try to find the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets.
And I'll go find Lockhart. It wouldn't surprise me if he were trying to sneak out of Hogwarts!
What do you want this time?
To ask you how you died.
You're the first one who ever asked. I died in this very stall. I remember it so well.
The door was locked, and I was crying because Olive Hornby had teased me about my glasses. Then I heard somebody come in.
They said something odd, in a different language, I think. And it was a boy speaking!
So I unlocked the door to tell him to go and use his own bathroom, and then -- I died.
Where was this boy standing?
Over there by the sinks. One of them has never worked, not as long as I've been here.
I wonder if that's where the entrance to the Chamber is?
Open! Open! That's not working. Maybe if I try Parseltongue...
Open! That's got it!
Got him! He was packed and ready to go...
What's that?
I think it's the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets!
Well, then, you won't be needing me. Cheers, boys, have to go warm up my broom...
You're not through yet. Down you go.
No!
C'mon, Harry. This is it!
I know...
I need to enter the Chamber of Secrets! I hope I have enough Wiggenweld potions!
I could try to improve my Challenge scores!
I could search for more Wizard cards!
I haven't completed the Gold Wizard card set yet!
I haven't completed the Silver Wizard card set yet!
I haven't completed the Bronze Wizard card Set yet!
I could have a Wizard Duel!
I need to tidy up any loose ends, then go down to the House Cup Ceremony in the Great Hall.
The reward room has been permanently opened.  See how many beans you can collect!
In the second week of December Professor McGonagall collected the names of those who would be staying at school over Christmas.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione signed up. They heard that Malfoy was staying, which struck them as very suspicious.
The Christmas holiday would be the perfect time to use the Polyjuice Potion and try to worm a confession out of Draco.
I have to find out what's wrong with Moaning Myrtle. She is up in her bathroom.
Better follow the spiders like Hagrid said.
I don't want to lose sight of the spiders.
I hope the spiders know where they're going.
This ledge is too high to climb!
I'll give you a leg up, Harry.  You'll have to brave the Forbidden Forest alone.
An intruder has compromised the lair!  Protect our home, my children!
Here goes!
What's that beneath the statue?
Attention please! Students, attention! The Headmaster wants to address you.
Silence! It isn't too late to lose House Points, you know!
This House Cup Ceremony brings the school year to an end, and an eventful year it was.
Without further ado, I shall now present the Cup to the Hogwarts house with the most points.
Think we'll take it again this year?
After you and Harry saved Hogwarts? I should think so!
In fourth place...Ravenclaw!
Thank you for not saying last place.
In third place...Hufflepuff!
Thank you. We find finishing in the middle to be quite adequate.
And now the for the second place house...
It'll be you, Gryffindors. You're naturally second best.  You won't steal the House Cup from Slytherin like you did last year.
...after barely escaping disqualification...Slytherin.
What?!
That means...
First place and the House Cup goes to Gryffindor!
Yes!
We did it again!
No, you did it again, Harry!
In fourth place, Gryffindor!
In fourth place, Slytherin!
In fourth place, Hufflepuff!
In third place, Gryffindor!
In third place, Slytherin!
In third place, Ravenclaw!
And now for the second place house...Gryffindor!
And now for the second place house...Hufflepuff!
And now for the second place house...Ravenclaw!
Slytherin wins the House Cup!
Ravenclaw wins the House Cup!
Hufflepuff wins the House Cup!
Ha! Told you so, Potter!
What! I'd rather lose to Potter!
You only won because you weren't caught!
Oh well. They deserve a turn, too. It was still a great year!
THE BOY IS BEHIND YOU. LISTEN -- HEAR HIM!
KILL THE BOY!
DON'T LET HIM GET AWAY!
The basilisk can dodge my spells! I'll have to figure out the best time to cast at him.
Maybe I can hit him while he's getting ready to attack!
Oh no! He can still hear me! I'll have to shoot at him from another angle.
Well, the school year is almost over.
Fun? You call that fun?
Well, maybe not, but the Quidditch match today should be fun.
Yeah, you should go to your Quidditch match.
We'll be in the stands rooting for you Harry!
This is our last day at Hogwarts.
Yeah, the only thing left to do is the House Cup Ceremony in the Great Hall.
If you have anything you want to do at Hogwarts you better do it before you go to the House Cup Ceremony.
Alohomora
Flipendo
Lumos
Skurge
Diffindo
Rictusempra
Spongify
Mimblewimble
Expelliarmus
If you have enough beans you can buy Quidditch supplies from Fred and George.
Get close to the Snitch to catch it.
Press the Left Mouse Button to push other Seekers out of the way.
Quidditch Armour will help soften blows during the match.
The Nimbus 2001 is the fastest racing broom to date!
Listen up Harry. We're going to make sure we win the Quidditch cup this year and the way we're going to do that is practice, practice, practice.  First, a quick recap of what we learned last year...
Avoid both bludgers and the other Seeker.
Being hit by a Bludger or pushed by another Seeker will slow you down and the Snitch will fly farther away.
Use the Action button to push opponents out of the way.
Press the Left Mouse Button to catch the Snitch.
Avoid these things to catch up with the Snitch.
You have to get really close to the Snitch before you try and grab it.
I've asked Gryffindor to stand in as the opponent Seeker.
Of course, you already know that the red ball is called the Quaffle; and it's the job of the three Chasers to get it past the enemy Keeper into one of the Goal Posts. But you don't need to concern yourself with that.
There are also two Bludgers flying around, which you don't want to get hit by. But don't worry. Each team has two Beaters who try to keep them away from you.
Last and most importantly, it's your job as our Seeker to catch the Golden Snitch before the enemy Seeker does.
Since you've been off all summer, let's start out easy.
I'm going to throw up just a Snitch for you and I want to you to try to catch it.
Alright then. You can use your arrow keys to steer your broom left, right, up and down.
You will automatically close in on the Snitch.
Sounds easy enough?
When you get closer to the Snitch, you'll notice that your hand reaches out. If you push the Ctrl key or Action key, and are close enough, you'll grab the Snitch.
Alright Harry, way to go!
Nice-one Harry, nice-one!
That's it Harry, stay right on the Snitch. You've almost got it.
That's it Harry, you've almost got it.
Now that the rest of the Gryffindor team is here, let's play a mock game of Quidditch.
Avoid the Bludgers and the other Seeker.
I'm going to have a Gryffindor stand in as an enemy Seeker. You'll need to make sure she's out of the way before you catch the Snitch.
Don't worry, they'll take it easy on you.
When you're close to the other Seeker you can use your Action key to kick or shove them.
Quidditch is rough game Harry but don't worry, the padding helps.
You'll need to do this before you'll be able to catch the Snitch.
Being hit by a Bludger, pushed by the other Seeker, or running into things can slow you down and put you farther behind the Snitch.
Avoid these things to catch up with the Snitch.
That's it Harry, give them a good nudge so you can catch the Snitch!
Remember, Harry. You'll not put your hand out till the enemy Seeker is out of the way.
Don't worry Harry, you'll catch it next time, I know it.
They got a lucky break, you're still the best Seeker I've ever seen Harry.
If you have enough beans you can buy Quidditch upgrades from Fred and George.
The Nimbus 2001 gives you much needed speed.
Quidditch Armour will help soften blows during the match.
Press the left mouse button to catch the Snitch!
Get close to the Snitch to catch it.
You can use the A key or the left mouse button to speed up.
What are you doing, Potter?
5 Points from Gryffindor!
10 Points from Gryffindor!
15 Points from Gryffindor!
20 Points from Gryffindor!
Now go, or I shall deduct even more House Points from you.
Ginny!
Ginny, please wake up!
She won't wake.
Tom -- Tom Riddle?
She's still alive.  But only just.
Little Ginny's been writing in my old diary for months. She poured out her soul to me.
It made me stronger until I had enough power to pour a little of my soul back into her.
What do you mean?
Ginny Weasley opened the Chamber of Secrets, just as I had long ago... before I became... Lord Voldemort.
No.
<laugh>
It is me, Harry. Ginny told me all about you.  I'm afraid that your 2nd year magic tricks will be worthless against the power of the greatest sorcerer in the world!!
The greatest sorcerer in the world is Albus Dumbledore.
Dumbledore is gone! Now, I'm going to teach you a lesson. Let's match the powers of Tom Riddle, Heir of Slytherin, against the famous Harry Potter...
That's a phoenix...
Fawkes!
A sword...from Dumbledore, no doubt, afraid to come himself. Well, it won't save you, Harry Potter!
Speak to me, Slytherin, greatest of the Hogwarts Four!
Kill him.
NO!  YOU CAN STILL SMELL THE BOY!  YOU CAN STILL KILL HIM!  KILL HIM NOW!
Noooooooooooooooooo!
Harry -- oh, Harry -- I wanted to tell you -- it was me, Harry -- but I swear I didn't mean to.  Riddle made me do it.
It's alright. Riddle's finished.  C'mon, Ginny, let's get out of here.
Above you!
Above you!
Beneath you!
Beneath you!
Behind you!
Behind you!
Right on your tail!
Right on your tail!
Bludger on the left!
Bludger on the left!
Bludger on the right!
Bludger on the right!
Shake it off!
Shake it off!
Block her!
Block her!
Block him!
Block him!
Block 'em!
Block 'em!
Box 'em in!
Box 'em in!
Mind the Bludger!
Mind the Bludger!
Look out for the Beater!
Look out for the Beater!
Don't get boxed in!
Don't get boxed in!
Look out for backwash!
Fumble!
Fumble!
Take it to them!
Take it to them!
Back in formation!
Back in formation!
Take the initiative!
Get it!
Get it!
Just trying isn't good enough!
Good try!
Good try!
Just trying isn't good enough!
Don't let 'em get away with that!
Don't let 'em get away with that!
Over here!
Over here!
Don't let 'em through!
Don't let 'em through!
They're on the run now!
They're on the run now!
That's the way to do it!
That's the way to do it!
I have it!
I have it!
Keep your eyes open!
Keep your eyes open, you fool!
Keep your eyes open!
Keep your eyes open, you fool!
It's a great day for a Quidditch match!
The whole season has been pointing toward today's Quidditch match between these two traditional rivals!
The pitch is ready, the Quaffles are polished, the Bludgers are humming...let's play Quidditch!
Rain or shine, day or night, Horklumps on the pitch or ghouls in the stands, nothing keeps the crowds away from a Quidditch match.
There's nothing like the age-old Quidditch rivalries you find here at Hogwarts!
Can't win without potions, eh, Potter!
Having a sip, Potter? Mouth a bit dry?
Where'd you get that broom, Potter? Filch's closet?
You're about to be famous all over again, Potter...for losing!
Even snakes think you're boring, Potter!
Why aren't you waving to your little girlfriend, Ginny Weasley, Potter?
You play like a non-magical, Potter!
You hit like a non-magical person, Potter!
My owl lands on me harder than that, Malfoy!
What was that, a tap on the shoulder?
I've had shadows fall on me harder than that, Potter!
Money does you no good up here, does it, Malfoy?
Go Gryffindor!
Potter you rotter!
Go talk to a snake, Potter!
Get the Snitch!
You call that beating? Put some arm into it!
Foul! Foul! How could you miss that?
Our keeper must be cursed!
Wake up, ref!
What are you, ref, under a spell?
You have failed, Potter....where I have succeeded.  You simply didn't stand a chance...now, the world is MINE!!
And the action has moved into the trench surrounding the pitch.
Flipendo!
Lumos!
Skurge!
Rictusempra!
Diffindo!
Alohomora!
<small cough>
Ow!
Ouch!
Ouch!
<pullup grunting>
Who-o-oa ...
Aaaaaaaaaah!
hup!
Who-o-oa!
Who-o-oa!
hup!
Wheeeee!
Aaaah!
Aah!
Eeaah!
Hmm?!
I can sense you there!
You will not escape my lair...
You will make a nice meal for my sons and daughters...
Aaaaaahhhhh!!
Oof!
Get him!
Kill him!
Find him!
Bite him, my children!
Heh, heh, heh.
Grr!!
Argh!!
If I cut those support webs with Diffindo, I bet Aragog will fall into the pit!
This is a girls' bathroom, you're not a girl.
I do have feelings you know, even if I am dead...
My life was nothing but misery and now people come along ruining my death!
Peeves upset me so much I came in here and tried to kill myself, but then I remembered that.... that I'm already dead!
Do you think I don't know what people call me behind my back?  Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle.
No one wants to upset me!  That's a good one.
Oh, it's you.
What do you want now?  Can't you see how upset I am?
It's all Olive Hornby's fault! She should've never teased me.
I suppose you enjoy bothering me.
Next time you see Peeves, tell him that Myrtle wants her tissues back.
I hope I don't see my reflection in anything.
I hope I'm glowering enough.
I feel like I fell from the top of the Ugly Tree and hit every branch on the way down.
I've got to find the Slytherin dormitory. It's somewhere in the dungeon.
I've got to go to Moaning Myrtle's bathroom and try to find the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets.
Being sure to check that no one was watching, Ron and Harry took off in the old Ford Anglia.
Now all we've got to worry about are airplanes.
Look out for that plane!
<laugh>
I can't see anything in here.
Come on car, just a little further...
<panic yell>
<panic yell>
<Phew> That was close.
I think we're almost there.
Come on car.
Come on.
Uh-oh.
Nooooooo!
Nooooooo!
Stop! Stop! Stooop!
Watch out for that tree!
Uh-oh, I think the car's cutting out.
I'm by the Rictusempra Challenge.
This is the door to the Skurge Challenge.
That's the way to the Diffindo Challenge.
I'm by the Spongify Challenge.
There's the portrait of the Gryffindor common room.
This leads to the dungeons.
Here's the Entrance Hall.
Here's the Great Hall, site of ceremonies and duelling!
Here's the Greenhouse. It's always so warm in here.
Good old Hagrid's Hut!
This is the House Point Ceremony chamber.
How could I ever forget the way to the Quidditch Pitch?
Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. How depressing!
Here's Flitwick's Charms Classroom.
I'm in the Transfiguration Classroom!
Here's the Defence Against the Dark Arts Classroom.
I'm in the Potions Classroom! Better keep an eye out for Snape!
This is the Grand Staircase. Better not slide down the banister!
I'm outside on the Hogwarts Grounds.
Ravenclaw has the Quaffle!
Gryffindor has taken the Quaffle!
Slytherin has control of the Quaffle!
Quaffle taken by Slytherin!
Slytherin in possession of the Quaffle...
Slytherin has the Quaffle!
Ravenclaw has control of the Quaffle!
Ravenclaw in possession of the Quaffle...
Huffflepuff has taken control of the Quaffle!
Hufflepuff in possession...
Quaffle taken by Hufflepuff!
Hufflepuff has taken the Quaffle!
Quaffle taken by Gryffindor!
Gryffindor in possession...
Gryffindor has taken control of the Quaffle!
Quaffle taken by Ravenclaw!
HUFFLEPUFF SCORES!
RAVENCLAW SCORES!
GRYFFINDOR SCORES!
SLYTHERIN SCORES!
Potter's done it! Gryffindor has beaten Slytherin! Well done, Harry Potter!
Slytherin goes down to defeat at the hands of Gryffindor.
Slytherin has fallen to their archrival, Gryffindor.
Gryffindor was just too much for Slytherin today and they take the win!
Victory for Gryffindor, defeat for Slytherin!
Gryffindor comes out on top of Slytherin!
Gryffindor wins again!
Hufflepuff wins again!
Ravenclaw wins again!
Slytherin wins again!
That's two in a row for Gryffindor!
That's two in a row for Hufflepuff!
That's two in a row for Ravenclaw!
That's two in a row for Slytherin!
Slytherin has won the match!
Gryffindor wins!!
Gryffindor has won the match!
Hufflepuff wins!
Hufflepuff has won the match!
The match goes to Ravenclaw!
Ravenclaw wins!
Slytherin is triumphant!
What an exciting end to a great season of Quidditch. Gryffindor wins the Quidditch Cup.
That's it wizards and witches, the season's over and Gryffindor takes the Quidditch cup this year!
Gryffindor wins the Quidditch cup!
The Quidditch Cup goes to Slytherin!
What an exciting end to a great season of Quidditch. Slytherin wins the Quidditch Cup!
This year's winner of the Quidditch Cup...Gryffindor!
This year's winner of the Quidditch Cup...Slytherin!
That's it wizards and witches, the season's over and Slytherin takes the Quidditch cup this year!
Snitch! Snitch! Snitch! Snitch!
Was that the Snitch?
A glint of gold... is that the Snitch?
THERE'S THE Snitch!
Yes! The Snitch!
The Snitch is in play!
We all know what that is...the Snitch!
The Snitch is in the game!
The Snitch has made its appearance!
Here comes the Hufflepuff Seeker!
Potter's seen the Snitch!
Look at Potter go... he's after the Snitch!
Here comes Potter!
Here comes the Ravenclaw Seeker!
Here comes the Gryffindor Seeker!
Here comes the Slytherin Seeker!
Hufflepuff's Seeker is after the Snitch!
The Ravenclaw Seeker sees the Snitch and will not be denied!
The Slytherin Seeker is going for the Snitch!
Potter is so close!!
The Slytherin Seeker Malfoy is closing in the Snitch!
The Hufflepuff Seeker is almost on top of the Snitch!
The Ravenclaw Seeker is zeroing in on the Snitch!
Harry Potter closes in on the Snitch...
Stay on target!
Stay with it Harry!
He's getting closer!
Potter's gaining!
Come on, Harry! Ahem, sorry, Professor.
Potter's moving in for the kill...
The crowd is on its feet! Come on, Harry Potter!
Potter of the Gryffindor side is closing in the Snitch!
This is amazing!!!
I've not seen such flying!
Amazing skill!!
Come on, Gryffindor! Oh, er, sorry, Professor.
Look at Potter go!
Potter swipes at the Snitch!
The Hufflepuff Seeker is reaching for the Snitch!
Potter's going for it!
Look at the skill!
Closer...closer...the Hufflepuff Seeker is about to swipe...
Malfoy leans forward toward the Snitch...
The Ravenclaw Seeker reaches out for the Snitch...
Potter reaches out...
The Snitch narrowly evades Malfoy.
Oh! Hard luck Gryffindor! Er, whoops.
Oooh, he's lost it!
Aaah, he's lost the Snitch!
Unsuccessful!
He turns, he grabs...he misses!
Did he...? No,  the Snitch got away!
The Ravenclaw Seeker misses the Snitch and it streaks away!
The Snitch zips away just out of the Hufflepuff Seeker's grasp!
Potter of Gryffindor narrowly misses the Snitch!
He caught it! Maximum points for Gryffindor!
He caught the Snitch!
Potter has the Snitch!
Good catch! Potter has the Snitch!
Oh, beautifully done!
A perfect catch! Potter brings it home for Gryffindor!
Hufflepuff has the Snitch!
The Snitch is in Hufflepuff hands!
Ravenclaw takes the Snitch!
The Snitch is under Ravenclaw control!
Slytherin has the Snitch, and revels in it!
Slytherin's Seeker, smirking all the way, has the Snitch.
Keep it up, Harry, you almost have it!
Steady on, Harry, steady on!
Come on, Potter, don't give up now!
Don't give up now, Hufflepuff.
You're almost there, Hufflepuff!
Go, Ravenclaw, go!
The Snitch is almost within Ravenclaw's grasp...
Just a little farther, Draco...
The prize is within reach, Draco..
Don't stop now, Draco...
Who will catch the Snitch?
The Seekers are battling for the Snitch!
The Seekers battle it out...
Look at the Seekers go!
The Seekers cross brooms over the Snitch!
Both Seekers struggle for the Snitch!
The Seekers snatch at the Snitch simultaneously!
The Seekers are in a duel for the Snitch!
Both Seekers go all out for the Snitch!
Who will win the struggle for the Snitch?
Malfoy is falling behind...
Potter falls behind...
The Hufflepuff Seeker falls behind...
The Ravenclaw Seeker has fallen behind...
Potter's far ahead...
The Ravenclaw Seeker surges ahead...
Potter takes the lead...
Potter's doing well.
Malfoy has the advantage...
Malfoy has surged ahead...
The Hufflepuff Seeker is ahead...
The Hufflepuff Seeker has taken the advantage...
The Ravenclaw Seeker streaks into the lead...
Potter flubs a hit.
Potter misses by inches.
Potter doesn't connect.
Clear miss by Potter.
Potter hits nothing but air.
No contact by Potter.
You call that a push, Harry?
Potter puts the boot in!
A swift knock from Harry!
Potter gives Malfoy a good one!
Nice one Harry, nice one!
Sneaks one in...
Swift push by Potter...
Potter knocks the stuffing out of him...
Potter gives 'em quite a jostle...
Potter got shunted by that one!
Nice push by Potter..
Potter put his whole body behind that one...
That jab barely missed Potter...
Potter escapes a shove.
Potter just missed that weak swipe...
A jab by Slytherin misses Potter. You can bet they'll hear about that later!
A Slytherin nearly misses bludgering Potter...
Potter dodges a Hufflepuff...
Potter ducks a blow by Ravenclaw...
Harry takes a good tumble.
Draco scuffs Harry!
Harry gets a taste of Hufflepuff shoeleather!
Ravenclaw's blow connects with Potter!
Draco shines his shoe on Potter's backside!
Hufflepuff gives Harry the boot!
Harry takes a jolt from Ravenclaw!
Here comes a Bludger!
Bludger!
Bludger aimed at Harry Potter!
Look out for that Bludger, Harry!
Bludger targeted at Hufflepuff!
That Bludger has its eye on Hufflepuff!
A Bludger is zeroing in on Ravenclaw!
Ravenclaw about to have an unexpected visitor!
Here comes a Bludger for Slytherin!
That Bludger looks like it has a taste for Slytherin!
Potter dodging a hail of Bludgers!
Both Bludgers whiz by Potter!
Both Bludgers whisk passed Malfoy!
Ooh, Potter almost just became a Bludger sandwich!
A near Bludger double hit!
The Bludgers crossed right beside that Hufflepuff!
Almost a Bludger convergence just then!
They're lucky those Bludgers both missed.
Both Bludgers were just off the mark.
I don't know how both Bludgers missed that time!
One target, two Bludgers, zero hits!
Both Bludgers score a near miss on Slytherin.
Not hit that time, even with both Bludgers involved.
They dodged a Bludger that time!
Oooh, that was close!
A near miss for Potter!
Dodges a speeding Bludger!
A near hit!
That Bludger was this close!
Another near hit!
Another near miss!
That Bludger could have done some damage if it had hit!
A hair's-breadth Bludger miss!
Some hard Bludgering out there today.
Ooh, that will leave a mark!
Ooooh!
Oh! He'll feel that tomorrow!
OUCH! That must have hurt!
Smart blow from a Bludger!
There'll be some trips to the hospital wing after this match!
That Bludger came out of nowhere!
Oh! I could hear that Bludger hit from here!
That must have stung!
A ringing clout!
What a hit!
Bludgers are finding their marks today!
A solid hit!
A telling blow!
Oooh, that was close!
Potter escapes another one.
A close one for Potter.
Potter dodged just in time.
That may have just grazed the Hufflepuff player.
A close call for the Hufflepuff player.
Missed the Hufflepuff player by a gnat's eyelash!
Just missed!
Very, very close to a hit just then.
A brush with disaster for the Ravenclaw player.
That last one almost winged a Ravenclaw player.
Just missed that Ravenclaw player!
A Slytherin player escapes near catastrophe!
Slytherin should be glad that was a miss.
The Slytherin player dodged at the last possible moment!
Oooh, that's gotta hurt!
Nailed!
A heavy blow to Hufflepuff.
Hufflepuff looks stunned.
Ravenclaw takes it right in the chops.
Ravenclaw hit hard.
That knocked 'em nearly sideways!
No doubt that hurt!
He's endured about as much as he can!
He can't take much more of that!
Potter is looking tired now...
It isn't looking good for Potter...
Looking wobbly out there...
I don't know how he's staying on his broom...
You can tell he's reeling...
What's keeping him upright?
He seems disoriented now...
He can't keep this up much longer...
I think they're done for...
It shouldn't be long now...
They're going down!
They can't stay up after that...
Are they still even conscious?
It isn't looking good...
Potter is losing control...
Potter's out of control, he's hurt!
Potter's going to crash!
He's had it! He's going in!
A Gryffindor is going down!
A Gryffindor is out of control!
That Gryffindor player is about to ditch!
A Slytherin player is coiling toward the ground...
A Hufflepuff player is spinning out!
Spiraling, spiraling downward is a Hufflepuff player!
A Slytherin player is taking the plunge...
A Hufflepuff is approaching the ground at an alarming speed!
It isn't looking good for someone on the Slytherin side...
There goes a player spinning out...
Someone's out of control...
Potter's out of the game!
It's all over for Harry Potter!
Hard luck, Potter, those Bludgers were just too much!
A Gryffindor player is out of the game!
The game is over for one unlucky Gryffindor.
There goes a player out the game.
No more Quidditch today for that unfortunate player.
A Ravenclaw's wings have been clipped and they're out of the match!
A Ravenclaw player's Quidditch day is done.
A Slytherin player is down in the grass!
The match is over for a player on the Slytherin side.
Potter flies back up to search again!
Potter's going back up for another look!
Potter climbs again!
The Hufflepuff player is back in the hunt!
The Hufflepuff player won't be kept down!
The Hufflepuff player climbs again!
The downed player won't be denied!
The downed player returns to the match!
Back up goes the downed player!
The downed player climbs again!
The Ravenclaw player  takes wing once more!
The Ravenclaw player climbs back into the match!
It's back in the air for the Ravenclaw player!
Back up goes the Slytherin player!
The Slytherin player is back in the game, looking for payback!
The downed Slytherin rejoins the match.
Gryffindor keeper dives, but misses. Good effort there.
Gryffindor keeper dives...and makes the save!
Keeper dives... and misses!
Hufflepuff keeper dives...and misses. Bad luck!
Keeper dives... and saves!
The Hufflepuff keeper dives and makes the save! Great play!
The Ravenclaw keeper dives but cannot make the save.
The keeper from Ravenclaw dives and makes a great save!
The Slytherin keeper dives, but doesn't make the save.
The Slytherin keeper dives, makes the saves, and looks mighty pleased with himself.
One of the Weasley twins with another excellent block.
Yet another professional-quality block by Weasley.
Nice block... sent his way by Fred or George Weasley, I can't tell which.
A Hufflepuff Beater performed an excellent block there.
Great block! The Hufflepuff Beaters are on their game today.
Oh, that was a sneaky block by the Hufflepuff Beater!
Excellent blocking today from all Beaters.
We've seen some top-notch Beater play today.
The Beaters are saving their team mates from some dreadful clouts.
Nice block by the Beater just then.
Some quality blocking today by Ravenclaw.
Oh, nice block from Ravenclaw!
You can always expect enthusiasm from Slytherin Beaters.
A smashing block by Slytherin!
Those Ravenclaw Beaters know what they're doing.
A Slytherin Beater is there for the block!
Blatant foul!
That looked like a foul from up here!
Foul!
I think some fouls are being missed out there.
The ref must be cursed if he missed that one!
Yet another foul shielded from the officials'  view.
Yet another foul.
Play is getting a bit out of hand.
Bit of a foul out there.
Certain players are getting away with a lot today.
Unless I'm mistaken, I think that was a foul.
A clear and deliberate foul!
There's no place in Quidditch for some of the fouls I'm seeing.
Oh  no!
Ahhh!
How awful!
Dreadful!
Noooooo!!!!
How unfortunate!
How beastly!
Atrocious!
How disagreeable!
Oh my goodness!
Deplorable!
How ghastly!
Most unfortunate!
How unpleasant!
Bad, very, very bad!
That was a bad turn.
One hates to see that.
Outstanding!
Brilliant!
Wonderful!
Smashing!
Excellent!
Super!
Oh, yes!
Excellent!
Exceptional!
Fantastic!
Terrific!
Tremendous!
Marvelous!
Splendid!
Sensational!
Dazzling!
Superlative!
Breathtaking!
Well done!
Great execution!
We hope you've enjoyed today's contest. This is Lee Jordan, signing off.
This is Lee Jordan, signing off!
After another fine match of Quidditch at Hogwarts, this is Lee Jordan, signing off.
This is Lee Jordan saying so long until next time.
This is Lee Jordan saying good night, good luck, and good Quidditch.
This is Lee Jordan saying good night.
Good evening from me, Lee Jordan.
I'll bet you anything there's a battle in the trench.
Anything can happen in Quidditch, even when you don't know what it is!
I guess they're doing alright down there...
We'll be giving you a thorough description of the action in the trench as soon as it becomes available.
Try to imagine the feverish competition going on in the trench. I know I am!
Many famous matches have been decided in the trench, although the results are rarely known until afterwards.
In Quidditch, it's at moments like this that the fans' imaginations really take over!
The action in the trench is no doubt fast and furious.
This has been a remarkably clean match.
There have been no fouls in this match so far.
Play today has been extremely fair.
Fair play has ruled the pitch throughout this match.
It's been a clean match today, which is something of a surprise.
This match has been marked by fair play.
Both teams have been playing fair today, at least so far.
Both teams deserve kudos for their clean conduct today.
It's been a spirited match, with more than a few wallops exchanged.
The play today has been rough but fair.
Quite a bit of good old-fashioned Bludgering out there.
I've seen a few jabs today, but nothing outside the rules.
The Bludgers have really been finding their targets today.
The Beaters are earning their keep out there.
There have been a lot of Bludger hits today, but that's part of the game.
You hate to see one of these youngsters fall from their broom and plummet needlessly.
No one has fallen off their broom today, which is always good news.
Everyone has managed to stay on their brooms in this match, and that's a good thing.
Everyone has stayed firmly on their brooms today. Falls always spoil the match.
Happily, everyone has stayed on their broom in this match.
No one's been knocked off their broom today.
Those hard-hitting Slytherins haven't been able to knock anyone of their broom today.
Those steady Ravenclaws are perched securely on their brooms.
No falls today by either team. Everyone is keeping their brooms under them.
Today Harry duels -
Duelling Harry today is -
Peter
Christopher
David
John
Andrew
Adrian
Emily
Elizabeth
Rachel
Alice
Edward
Bridget
Stewart
Charlotte
Helen
Michael
Roy
Simon
Douglas
Heather
Laura
Mary
Rebecca
Edward
The student duelling Harry today is -
This is a save book.  Walk into them to save the current state of your game.
When you faint, your game will automatically revert to the point where and when you last touched a save book.
Try to cast Flipendo on these four buttons.
Lets try practicing aiming with the mouse to cast spells.  Press and hold the left mouse button and move the mouse to aim the magical targeting particles.
When you see the Flipendo spell symbol, let go of the mouse button!
Hooray for Hufflepuff!
Hufflepuff forever!
Rah rah Ravenclaw!
Ravenclaws are chicken!
Slytherin rules!
Malfoy fears non-magical folks!
My granny flies better than Malfoy!
Give him another scar, Draco!
Harry! Hermione told me that you can find the shredded boomslang skin out in the greenhouse.
Follow me Harry.
The greenhouse is right inside that door Harry.
I'll watch out for Professor Sprout, good luck.
Harry! I want to investigate the scene of the crime. Filch usually guards the hallway where his cat was Petrified, but he's away, so now is our chance!
Do you really think there's a Chamber of Secrets?
I believe Flitwick's story even if he doesn't . And Dumbledore himself couldn't cure Mrs. Norris. I think that whatever attacked her might not be... human.
Here we are at the scene of the crime. It can't hurt to look around, since we're already here...and Filch isn't.
Remember all the water that was on the floor? Where had it come from?
From in there. Let's have a look
I can't go in there, that's a girls' bathroom!
Oh, Ron, there won't be anyone in here. This is Moaning Myrtle's place.
She haunts one of the bathrooms. It's been out-of-order all year because she keeps having tantrums and flooding the place.
I wish people would stop talking about me behind my back!!
Who can the Heir of Slytherin be, though? Who'd want to frighten all the non-magical folk out of Hogwarts?
Draco Malfoy. You heard him call Hermione a Mudblood. But how do we prove it's him?
We'd need to sneak inside the Slytherin common room and ask Malfoy a few questions without him realising it's us.
But that's impossible!
<laugh>
All we'd need would be some Polyjuice Potion. It transforms you into somebody else.
We could change Harry into a Slytherin. No one would realise it was really Harry.
Two of the potion ingredients are a bit tricky, I'm afraid: powdered bicorn horn and shredded boomslang skin.
Harry, I'll need you to get me some.
Any idea where I can find some?
I'm not sure about the shredded boomslang skin, I'll need to check at the library.
There's some bicorn horn in the Snape's storage room.
Well, I guess I'm off to the dungeon then. Wish me luck.
Two of the potion ingredients are a bit tricky, I'm afraid: powdered bicorn horn and shredded boomslang skin.
Harry, I'll need you to get me some of both, so I can finish the potion.
I'm not sure about the shredded boomslang skin, I'll need to check at the library.
Lovely. Molting Boomslangs and corridors full of goo. This should be enjoyable.
I don't know the entire recipe yet.  But I do know that it needs some bicorn horn.
Today Harry, you will have the pleasure of duelling the great Slytherin House!
Harry, you will now duel a member of your own team. Don't expect any special treatment from them.
Hufflepuff will today beat--er, duel the "famous" Harry Potter.
May I now introduce your next opponent: Ravenclaw!
And now, entering the ring, is your opponent. Try not to let them beat you too badly.
Harry has beaten a fellow Gryffindor. How very disloyal!
I can't believe you actually beat Hufflepuff! Must be a fluke.
You've actually won a match, Mr. Potter? I find that highly improbable.
Harry Potter has beaten Slytherin. How disappointing.
Ahh, and losing to your own house, too. What a pity.
Hmph. What a great shame! The reputable Harry Potter has lost a match!
I see the strength and agility of Hufflepuff were too great for you, Potter!
Ravenclaw takes the win!
And of course, Slytherin takes the victory. Not sure why you even tried, Mr. Potter.
A lucky cast for Mr. Potter.
Pay attention or Potter will take the match!
Ouch! A hard blow given to that Ravenclaw!
Slytherin takes an undeserved hit!
Oh my, Potter takes advantage of his opponent's inattention.
Back in the game, Hufflepuff! Don't let him defeat you.
Don't let that go to your head, Potter.
Snuck that one in, didn't you, Potter?
Argh! Not another hit for Potter!
Careful! He'll beat you if you let your guard down, Hufflepuff.
Don't let down your guard.
Ravenclaw has suffered a humiliating setback!
Don't let that Potter get to you. Strike him back!
I'm watching you, Potter, don't try to cheat.
Harry deals a surprise blow hits Hufflepuff!
Poor Potter. Doesn't seem to have the stamina!
Haha! Beaten down by your own house!
And a powerful blow knocks Harry out of the ring!
Down goes Potter! Down goes Potter! Down goes Potter!
You don't do so well when things are handed to you, eh, Potter?
I'd heard you dueled far better than that, Potter.
The "famous" Harry Potter has been hit!
Oooh! That looked like it hurt!
Glad that wasn't me who took that hit!
Ah, too bad, Potter. You'd better pay more attention next time.
Nice aiming by Slytherin!
A fabulous exchange, hitting Harry Potter squarely.
And Slytherin makes a very well timed hit.
Well Done! That was a great hit!
Spot on with that one, Ravenclaw!
I think you might've stunned him! Good one!
Fabulous aiming!
So sorry, Mr. Potter. That was quite a blow you took.
Watch it, Potter! You don't have your friends here to save you this time!
Savage spells, eh, Potter!
It's good to see you again Harry.
Hello there, young Potter. Heading for the Common Room, are we?
Take care now Harry.
Mind how you go, Harry.
Saw your friend Miss Granger earlier. What a nice girl.
Expelliarmus!
Mimblewimble!
Rictusempra!
Expelliarmus!
Mimblewimble!
Rictusempra!
Expelliumis!
Rictustempras!
Rictusemplia!
Rictiasempria!
Rictusrictus!
Expelliartis!
Expelleramus!
Rictusempia!
Rictusamplis!
Expelleramus!
Expelliartis!
Rictiasempria!
Rictusemplia!
Expelliumis!
Rictusamplis!
Rictusrictus!
Rictusempia!
Rictustempras!
Expelliartis!
Expelleramus!
Expelliumis!
Rictusamplis!
Rictiasempria!
Mimblywimply!
Mumblywomplia!
Mimblywimblia!
Mumblewhimper!
Mimblewumper!
Mimblewumbat!
Rictusempia!
Rictusrictus!
Rictusemplia!
Rictustempras!
Use the arrow keys to steer your broom left, right, up, down.
Being hit by a Bludger or pushed by another Seeker will slow you down and the Snitch will fly farther away.
Catch up to the Snitch, and then use the left mouse button to grab it.
Five points from Gryffindor!
No. No. No. Hold your wands to the left, not the right.
Sorry Professor McGonagall!  I think I'm lost.
Mr. Potter!  Why are you interrupting my class?
Well, I suggest you try finding your way somewhere else while my class is in session.
I shall deduct House Points the next time you barge into my classroom Mr. Potter!
Flintafore turns small items into matchboxes.
Now, where were we?
This is the Transfiguration classroom, but there's no class right now.
Please don't light the matches.
Welcome back for th' new school year, Harry. I'm still gamekeeper here, thank goodness.
I have to follow the spiders into the Forbidden Forest.
I need to find Draco.
I need to find Ginny.
I have to rescue Ron!
