@Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight
@Developer: Bombservice | Publisher: Playism
@First released: March 4, 2016

@System messages
Easy: For people who aren't used to playing videogames.
Normal: For people who are used to playing sidescrolling games.
Hard: For people who want a tougher challenge! 
Insane: Don't even try this.
Would you like to save over your current file?
By doing so, you'll start a new journey from the very beginning, with some changes.
Alright, then!
Progress saved!
POISONED!
CURSED!
You found an Ivory Bug!
Got Bellflower.
Got Astral Charm.
Got Edea's Pearl.
Got Bakman Patch.
Got Tainted Missive.
Got Magnet Stone.
You found a Vitality Fragment!
Got Monastery Key.
Does not open from this side
Locked
Used Monastery Key.
Talk
Pray
Got Soft Tissue.
Got Garden Key.
Got Dirty Shroom.
Used Garden Key.
Got Cat Sphere.
Got Torn Branch.
Got Sparse Thread.
Inspect
Received Bellflower!
Received Hazel Badge!
Received Passiflora!
MAP COMPLETION:
Yes
No
It's a golden bell.
Thank you for trying this demo version!
Your HP has been increased.
But your HP is already maxed.
Got Cinder Key.
Got Pocket Incensory. 
Karst Crest needed to pass
Used Cinder Key.
Got Black Sachet.
This skull appears to be laughing.
Bathe Maple Leaf in Hibisco tea?
Got Fresh Spring Leaf.
Got Sealed Wind.
Got Heavy Arrows.
Got Passiflora.
Got Bloodstained Tissue.
You found a Crest Fragment! Its essence grants you the ability to dodge mid-air!
You found a Crest Fragment! Its essence grants you the ability to charge arrows faster!
You found a Crest Fragment! Its essence grants you the ability to a new bow charge level!
You found a Crest Fragment! Its essence grants you the ability to warp when praying!
Unlocked 'Insane' difficulty!

@Item Messages
Passive Effect: increases invincibility frames and defense.
Passive Effect: increases attack by 100% when in low health.
Active Effect: restores a small amount of HP per use.
Passive Effect: sometimes enemies will drop twice as much munny.
Passive Effect: grants poison properties to your arrows.
Passive Effect: grants poison properties to your arrows.
Passive Effect: restores a small amount of HP per kill, but enemies won't drop munny.
Passive Effect: attracts munny stars.
Active Effect: inflicts poison on the user.
Passive Effect: raises user's resistance to status ailments.
Passive Effect: restores HP whenever user is poisoned.
Active Effect: fully restores the user's HP.
Active Effect: temporarily increases attack by 50%.
Passive Effect: slowly restores HP.
Active Effect: temporarily increases attack by 100%, at the cost of HP.
Passive Effect: heavily increases attack power, at the risk of losing HP.
Passive Effect: emits a sound when near secrecy.
Key Item.
Active Effect: summons several Bak blocks.
Active Effect: alternates between cat and human forms.
Key Item.
Passive Effect: restores a small amount of HP per kill.
Key Item.
Key Item.
Key Item. Allows warping when praying.
Active Effect: increases visibility in dark areas.
Key Item.
Key Item.
Active Effect: casts protective dark sorcery.
Active Effect: creates an artificial healing zone.
Key Item.
Active Effect: casts a powerful burst of energy.
Active Effect: casts protective light sorcery.
Passive Effect: increases power of arrows.
Active Effect: casts offensive sorcery.
Key Item.
Key Item.
Passive Effect: adds flame damage to your attacks.
Key Item.
Passive Effect: drastically increases speed of arrows.
Passive Effect: arrows pierce through enemies.
Active Effect: casts wind sorcery.
Key Item.
Key Item. Grants a new bow charge level.
Key Item. Increases arrow charging speed.
Key Item. Allows mid-air dodging.
Key Item. Allows warping when praying.

@Item lore
Manually sculpted from minerals found in the depths of the Green River. The piece comes from a middle-western empire, evident by its engraving.
Very small necklace. Those who wear it will find strength in its strange blessing, hoping to retrieve that which was lost.
Sour flower with restorative powers.
An old, worn-out charm. Radically increases your luck.
Edea was a sinner who betrayed her own people. For such acts, she was purged, and her body sent to a sacred grove, far from home.
A pearl made to look like the rare jewel of a demon.
Ring made of blood, possessing the ability to drain the remnants of fallen enemies.
A peculiar rock, rarely found on the surface.
A favorite of the previous King of Karst. His baptismal name is kept in absolute secrecy, to avoid misfortune.
Solidified state of a fairy's tear. Lightly enchanted, it scintillates subtly.
Dreadful liquid produced by Toar, the slumbering doctor. Its aroma, although deadly, has charmed many unfortunate souls.
A rare flower, harvested from the dried Whiteleaf Park.
Soft seed made of crystal. Quite difficult to grow into an adult tree, due to its delicacy.
Medal from the province of Crominia. Carried by messengers mounted on deers, dedicated to a life of long travels.
The followers of Esselin preach forgiveness, but their thoughts are spiteful and filled with hatred.
Sachet applicable to one's chest. Its scent might induce sudden frenzy.
A ring often sought for its aesthetic value. Few know of its secret uses.
Simple gift of subjective significance.
An absolutely tasteless object. Belonged to Moka, the demon servant of the undead witch Lubella.
Object of unknown sorcery. Looks like an ordinary glass ball.
A trinket, as useless as it may be, can still hold a place in our heart. This shiny little badge in particular seems to depict an owl.
The Whiteleaf Park, affected by the Queen's sorcery, was displaced towards the bottom of the city. It was infested by underworld spirits and demons, such as the immortal witch Lubella. 

@Area names
Sacred Ordalia Grove
Karst City
Forlorn Monastery
Subterranean Grave
Whiteleaf Memorial Park
Cinder Chambers
Royal Pinacotheca
Karst Castle
Frore Ciele

@Boss names
Arthropod Demon Edea
Pardoner Fennel
Moka
Lubella, the Witch of Decay
Derelict Frida
Archpriestess Choir
Heretical Arsonist
Royal Huntress Magnolia
Duchess Lupiar
Accurst Queen of Karst


@Dialogue
Ferryman: I'm afraid this is as far as I can take you.
Ferryman: I'm sorry. Anything close to the city is too dangerous.
Ferryman: Surely, that shouldn't be a problem for a priestess like you.
Ferryman: Fighting using a leaf must be difficult...
Ferryman: But I have faith in your ability to seal the curse away.
Ferryman: It has spread to your land too, after all.
Ferryman: For now, maybe the best you can do is seek an audience with our Queen.

Spider: U-Uguu...
Spider: W-wanna buy...?

Merchant: You came from that imp-infested forest...?
Merchant: Hi ha ha... Interesting.
Merchant: How can I help you?
Merchant: Thank you!
Merchant: You do not have enough munny to buy that.
Merchant: You already own this item.

Cath: What are you looking at? I'm human, like you.
Cath: You don't seem very capable of protecting yourself.
Cath: Take my word and look for shelter.
Cath: My name is Cath. I'm a knightess in service of the kingdom.
Cath: So, you are a priestess from Lun. And you're seeking the Queen's aid?
Cath: Ha. Ha. Ha.
Cath: You think she has any interest in your little village?
Cath: Well, here's some bad news.
Cath: I've heard rumors of an undead witch lurking around...
Cath: Progressing deeper into the city is very risky.
Cath: If you are adamant about meeting with the Queen, my advice only goes so far.
Cath: No one wants to be in this forsaken city any longer.
Cath: Our entire kingdom feels like a grave. The death count keeps going up daily.
Cath: I don't have much left other than the memory of my sister, Cathryn.

Cath: Thank you for your assistance. Are you hurt?
Cath: Since you're still around, perhaps you'll hear me out.
Cath: You damn roach. I'm not wasting my time with you!
Cath: Good.
Cath: I've suspected something was amiss up there at the castle.
Cath: The Queen I once served was noble and caring, but now she's turned into a morbid figure.
Cath: Anything under her direct control is lost, so I've deserted her order of knights.
Cath: Here's my proposal: taking down the Queen.
Cath: You mentioned her curse has reached your homeland.
Cath: Should you choose to side with me, you're going to need a special crest.
Cath: It was split into four pieces. One of its fragments should be around here...
Cath: It seems we don't have many alternatives.
Cath: We have to behead the lovely Queen.
Cath: S-say, maybe we should hang out more once all of this is done...
Cath: Argh!
Cath: It's my first time seeing a sacred leaf in action.
Cath: Certainly an interesting way of fending off enemies...
Cath: Once you have the four parts, head to the locked door at the entrance of the city. 

Cath: K... Kaho...
Cath: Ah... Hah...
Cath: Please... end my suffering...
Cath: Make the pain... s...top...
Cath: ...

Citizen: I'm not scared.
Citizen: The royal court has been ignoring us citizens ever since this kingdom fell to a curse.
Citizen: If you want to stay safe, don't leave outside.
Citizen: Make this stop...

Cleric: A neophyte? Do you seek salvation?
Cleric: You can achieve salvation from eternal damnation by donating to Saint Esselin.
Cleric: A recommendation of at least 15 munnies is needed for that.
Cleric: We are thankful. May you find peace.
Cleric: You do not have the minimum value we require.
Cleric: May the Lord have mercy on you.
Cleric: Personnel Only
Cleric: ...
Cleric: We are a small minority now that the Her Highness propagated her destruction.
Cleric: Most of the population has lost faith in the gods...
Cleric: She's to blame for all that is wrong right now.
Cleric: Saint Esselin is absolute. His wish reigns supreme.
Cleric: You are safe here with us.

Choir: Our prayers have been heard. The Witch of Decay and her demons have been vanquished.
Choir: Little by little, the voice of the gods pierce through this kingdom shrouded in darkness.
Choir: Still, for this convent to go against Her Highness' wishes... It is a disgrace to the name of our lord.
Choir: Her kindness knows no bounds. If you so desire, she'll protect even a heretic from Lun such as you.
Choir: Under the sacred protection of our Lord, let us pray for the souls of those departed, and for those wasted by the dark.
Choir: Please, my Lord, have mercy on the soul of my poor sister. So she can rest in peace...
Choir: That tissue you possess...
Choir: It certainly belonged to my younger sister.
Choir: Would you be willing to give it to me?
Choir: Handed in the Soft Tissue.
Choir: Thank you for your kindness.
Choir: Like my deceased sister, you pose a threat to the Crown.
Choir: I can't idle around when you do as you please. Pray your soul will go in peace.
Choir: Lord Esselin, have mercy on me...

Fennel: Why...? My Lord...
Fennel: The Queen destroyed this kingdom's faith.
Fennel: This convent, our abode, is all that's left for those who pray.
Fennel: Maiden in white... You are not one of us.
Fennel: Perhaps you are siding with the Queen?
Fennel: Look at what she's done to this kingdom!
Fennel: It is my duty to expurge that evil!

Moka: Huh?
Moka: Looks like some outsider missionary...
Moka: Ke he he...
Moka: Ah ha ha... Your rotten corpse will serve my mistress well!
Moka: You little pest...
Moka: I can't waste any more time with you!
Moka: No... No!
Moka: NO...! NO! NONONONO!!!

Paramol: Don't come any closer.
Paramol: Oh well. You seem sane enough.
Paramol: You are a priestess seeking an audience with the royal court?
Paramol: In the present state, reaching the castle is highly difficult.
Paramol: You won't find help easily in this city, but...
Paramol: My Master might be able to guide you.
Paramol: She lives inside this city's monastery, surrounded by cats.
Paramol: Have you seen the people of this city? Everything is lost.
Paramol: Fear destroys our minds. Stay safe.
Paramol: Have you heard? The pardoner's older sibling has returned.
Paramol: She is one of the court authorities on behalf of the convent.
Paramol: Perhaps you'll be interested in meeting her.

Cotillard: If it isn't an unfamiliar face to this monastery.
Cotillard: A devout from Lun, I see. You can call me Cotillard.
Cotillard: Oh? You have met with Paramol?
Cotillard: Ke ke ke... Such innocence.
Cotillard: So, you are concerned about your homeland. Indeed, the darkness assaulting your people hails from here.
Cotillard: Our Queen has become possessed by a malevolent greed.             
Cotillard: She's the one responsible for many casualties. Not only here, but in other lands,             too.
Cotillard: Ke ke ke...
Cotillard: Perhaps you should head to the castle. Just don't expect kindness from those who live there.
Cotillard: You'll have to find the way on your own.
Cotillard: Here, this should help you a bit.
Cotillard: Be careful. It's been only a year since all of this started, but most of our population is completely degenerated.
Cotillard: This area has been declared forbidden by the nobility, so it's refreshing to see an outsider.
Cotillard: I see you've made some progress. Heading to the castle, still?
Cotillard: The source of this mess, ke ke ke...
Cotillard: When Her Highness made a contract with the Underworld, certainly she did not expect this outcome.
Cotillard: Or did she?
Cotillard: I hope for the success of your endeavors, maiden from Lun.
Cotillard: Face the loyalty that remains, if it has not turned to fear yet.

Eri: Finally out of the cell...
Eri: It should be safe here. This place seems completely abandoned.
Eri: Now... Which way is the forest again...?
Eri: H-Huh.
Eri: What's with those clothes...? Who are you?! Identify yourself, now!
Eri: Priestess? Okay, then.
Eri: Here's a friendly warning: you won't find safety in this region anymore.
Eri: According to hearsay, the Queen summoned a storm of disease from her castle, one that's spreading throughout the world...
Eri: Look, you don't seem like a bad person.
Eri: Please run away from here and save yourself while you still can.

Eri: I'm glad you are still alive.
Eri: I guess I didn't introduce myself last time.
Eri: My name is Eri. Nice to meet you.
Eri: So, you came here from the west.
Eri: Hmm. Anywhere would be safer than here. This city is...
Eri: Our people... Have become shapeless, aimless ghosts.
Eri: We were left here to die, don't you think?
Eri: I... You are right.
Eri: Ah... Thank you. Your words give me hope.
Eri: I'm retreating to the bordering forest. That area is protected from the Queen's curse.

Eri: Ah, how is it going?
Eri: I see. You've come from far away, and even your homeland is being affected by our curse...
Eri: Hey! That Hazel Badge!
Eri: I wonder if you'd be willing to trade it for this special item I possess?
Eri: Thank you.
Eri: If you change your mind, I'll be waiting.
Eri: Got Blessing Charm!
Eri: Have faith, Kaho. I know things will turn out better soon!
Eri: I'm sorry...

Florist: Ah... Hello. How may I help you?
Florist: You may have noticed parts of the city have been affected by a foul curse.
Florist: This area in particular has been displaced, and is now corrupted by the spirits of the dead.
Florist: And so my dear plants have dried to this souless form.
Florist: I've been looking for this rare insect species, a kind of Ivory Bug.
Florist: If you happen to come across one of those, please bring it to me! I will reward you any way I can.
Florist: I see you have found the special bug I told you about! Here, take this for a reward.
Florist: Please, if it's not too much work, can you bring more of those for me?
Florist: You shall not go unrewarded!
Florist: Ah! More bugs! Thanks, kind girl. Here's the reward I promised!
Florist: It seems we have around 20 of those Ivory Bugs here...
Florist: They are small, but provide my plants with necessary nutrients.
Florist: Thank you from the bottom of my heart for bringing me all those bugs!

Imp: I have no business with you.
Imp: Go away, you stupid girl!
Imp: Oh, is that... A dirty shroom...?
Imp: P-pleasegiveittome?
Imp: Gave the Dirty Shroom.
Imp: Thank you, human girl!
Imp: Here, take this for your kindness.
Imp: Got Rotten Bellflower.
Imp: ...

Himehorn: Uu...Nohorn, go home!
Himehorn: Aaaa... My cake...

Askorn: Cough...
Askorn: I'm sorry, who are you?
Askorn: I see. So you are Kaho, huh? What a unique name.
Askorn: Call me Askorn. I take it you are unaware of the situation of these lands.
Askorn: You mentioned your journey brought you here in search of the Queen...
Askorn: If you really intend to continue further into the kingdom of Karst, beware.
Askorn: A ghastly presence has been enveloping everything.
Askorn: This sacred grove is one of the few untouched spots.
Askorn: Karst City is ahead. As dangerous as it is now, I must visit it to search for a beloved one.
Askorn: I've been asleep for a hundred years. Enough to make me unfamiliar with this kingdom.
Askorn: In my days, people would come to this grove and pray to higher deities.
Askorn: The people of this kingdom may have lost their faith, but I still have mine within me.
Askorn: Perhaps it was those heretic actions that led us to the present state of events...?

Askorn: Hey, Kaho!
Askorn: Help me somehow!
Askorn: Thank you.
Askorn: I was imprisoned here, and feared all my hope was lost.
Askorn: Now I can resume my search for my wife.
Askorn: We both died long ago, yet it seems the dead have crossed the border towards this world.
Askorn: There's much left untold. I plan to reunite with her and escape this forsaken city.
Askorn: I can see you are still in one piece.
Askorn: That kind of attire you use...
Askorn: It's not something from this land, am I correct?
Askorn: No matter.
Askorn: At this state of decay, none of us should be idling carelessly.
Askorn: I'll be around. Take care!
Askorn: The township's past prosperity and glory are long gone, it seems.
Askorn: In this time of need, people won't fight, and people won't pray.
Askorn: Whatever is left won't remain for much longer.

Askorn: My dear Cecilia...
Askorn: ...

Fishgirl: Please, you must find a way to get me out from this cell.
Fishgirl: Some sort of spell is spreading from this kingdom to the lands of the west, home of my people.
Fishgirl: Please... Do not leave me alone here...
Fishgirl: Find a way to put a stop to this...

Nutmeg Liz: Huh? W- Who are you?! And how did you get here?!
Nutmeg Liz: Get out, outsider! Now! You are giving me the creeps!!
Nutmeg Liz: Why are you still here? W-What is it that you desire?!
Nutmeg Liz: Um, whatever you say.
Nutmeg Liz: I am Nutmeg Liz, c-curator of this Royal Pinacotheca.
Nutmeg Liz: Like I told you before: LEAVE.
Nutmeg Liz: I wish there was a reason for you to stick around, but there isn't.
Nutmeg Liz: You have business with the Queen...?
Nutmeg Liz: Well, that's rare. Do you realize...
Nutmeg Liz: No, nevermind.
Nutmeg Liz: Be glad you are still alive and breathing. Don't worry, though, your time is coming.
Nutmeg Liz: Nye he he he he he...
Nutmeg Liz: At this point, we are walking a path of uncertainties. It brings out the best and the worst out of us.

Merlot: Ah... Who are you? Someone from the southern provinces?
Merlot: There's a certain... peculiar air around you.
Merlot: Please, join us here. It's safer.
Merlot: Though... It seems you can manage your way around. 
Merlot: What we remember of the past are simple figments of our memories.
Merlot: Personal treasures that aren't stored anywhere else.
Merlot: The past doesn't exist... The present is all we've got.

Mallory: This building is corrupted...
Mallory: Once, it housed fine displays of art, but now it's been doomed to distorted shapes filled with evil.
Mallory: I am glad you found us. We've been hiding here for many months,                    alone.
Mallory: Death could come any day, any minute now. None of us know how long we've got.
Mallory: Which is why we have to make each day matter.

Lupiar: So you are the one who engaged with Fennel.
Lupiar: Turn back now, foreigner. Her Highness does not want to be disturbed.
Lupiar: Such impudence...
Lupiar: Magnolia!
Magnolia: I know your kind... Cough...
Magnolia: Just like the pardoner, you stand against our Queen...
Magnolia: Cough... Blinded by faith.
Magnolia: The Queen would never... hurt u... s...

Prudence: You cannot deceive me.
Prudence: Meow... Welcome to Karst Castle, human.
Prudence: That black dress... A sacrifice maiden from Lun, I presume?
Prudence: Meow... Perhaps even your methods wouldn't be enough to save us.
Prudence: Meow... Ha ha ha ha...

@Bad ending
Kaho, the high priestess from the village of Lun, failed in her mission of sealing away the curse.
The world of the living was further infested by spirits of the dead, who continued to spread misery throughout the world.

@Good ending
When the curse from east reached the village of Lun, a priestess was sent on a sacred mission to seal it away.
The priestess triumphed over the dark, stopping the spread of the curse by drawing it into her body, but she faded away in the process.
Now only a faint memory of her story remains, passed on as tradition.
Even so, her spirit of determination lingers on, guiding younger priestesses towards finding peace.

@Developer messages
Welcome to the DEVELOPMENT ROOM! Congratulations on making it this far.
This is where you get to meet the development team.
If you wish to go back, proceed to the left.
rdein: Hello! I hope you are enjoying Momodora.
rdein: Whatever we make next, I hope you'll look forward to it, too!
PKBT: oh...? my developer room quote...?
PKBT: i haven't thought of one yet...
PKBT: rdein says i need a vacation... i guess i could say that...
Hernan: You can achieve anything as long as you believe in it.
Hernan: Don't give up my friend! See you again in the future! 
...
notoriousKnave: Boo!
thernz: I didn't do anything for this game
